>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
JUDY WOODRUFF. GWEN
IFILL IS ON ASSIGNMENT.
GWEN IFILL IS ON ASSIGNMENT.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, THE
BUZZ BEHIND DONALD TRUMP.
BUZZ BEHIND DONALD TRUMP. WHY
THE CELEBRITY CANDIDATE IS
WHY THE CELEBRITY CANDIDATE
IS DOMINATING THE REPUBLICAN
DOMINATING THE REPUBLICAN
SPOTLIGHT IN A CROWDED FIELD.
>> EVERYBODY ON THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE IS CAMPAIGNING AS AN
OUTSIDER, AND DONALD TRUMP IS
OUTSIDER, AND DONALD TRUMP
IS THAT TO THE NTH DEGREE.
THAT TO THE NTH DEGREE.
EVERYBODY IS PAYING ATTENTION TO
EVERYBODY IS PAYING
ATTENTION TO HIM.
HIM. >> Woodruff:
THEN, HISTORY IN
>> Woodruff: THEN, HISTORY IN
THE MAKING: TWO FEMALE SOLDIERS
COMPLETE THE RIGOROUS TRAINING
AND COLLEGE.Y RANGERS.
TEXAS EDUCATORS AIM BIG TO
GRADUATE STUDENTS WITH AN
ASSOCIATE'S DEGREE BY THE TIME
THEY GET THEIR HIGH SCHOOL
THEY GET THEIR HIGH
SCHOOL DIPLOMA.
DIPLOMA. >> IT
ENCOURAGES THESE YOUNG
>> IT ENCOURAGES THESE YOUNG
PEOPLE TO STEP UP THEIR GAME,
AND I THINK TOO MANY OF OUR HIGH
SCHOOLS ARE SORT OF STRUCTURED
WITH KIND OF MINIMAL
EXPECTATIONS.
EXPECTATIONS. AND YOU
REAP WHAT YOU SEW.
AND YOU REAP WHAT YOU SEW. >>
Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE FIRST
TIME, THE U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL
THE U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY FORMALLY
PROPOSED CUTTING METHANE
EMISSIONS FROM OIL AND GAS
EMISSIONS FROM OIL AND
GAS PRODUCTION TODAY.
PRODUCTION TODAY. THE GOAL
IS A REDUCTION 40-45%
THE GOAL IS A REDUCTION 40-45%
BY 2025, FROM 2012 LEVELS.
ENERGY COMPANIES WOULD HAVE TO
REPAIR LEAKS IN OIL AND GAS
WELLS, AND CAPTURE GAS THAT
ESCAPES DURING HYDRAULIC
FRACTURING, OR FRACKING.ED A SUE
BANGKOK BOMBING THAT KILLED AT
LEAST 22 PEOPLE AND WOUNDED
LEAST 22 PEOPLE AND
WOUNDED SCORES MORE.
SCORES MORE. NOW, THEY'RE
SEARCHING FOR THE
NOW, THEY'RE SEARCHING FOR THE
MAN SEEN ON SECURITY VIDEO.
JONATHAN MILLER OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS ON THE
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS ON
THE DAY'S DEVELOPMENTS.
DAY'S DEVELOPMENTS. >>
Reporter: A YOUNG MAN IN
>> Reporter: A YOUNG MAN IN
LARGE HEAVY-FRAMED GLASSES, WITH
A THICK SHOCK OF DARK HAIR,
YELLOW T-SHIRT, BLUE KNEE-LENGTH
SHORTS, PLASTIC BAG IN ONE HAND
AND BLACK BACK-PACK. THAI
POLICE ARE NOW CONVINCED
THAI POLICE ARE NOW CONVINCED
THAT THISS TH IE BANGKOK BOMBER.
HERE HE IS, AT THE ERAWAN
HERE HE IS, AT THE
ERAWAN SHRINE.
SHRINE. YOU CAN SEE
THE SIZE OF THE BACK
YOU CAN SEE THE SIZE
OF THE BACK PACK HERE.
PACK HERE. IT'S BIG.
IT'S BIG. HE SITS
DOWNEXTN TO THE WROUGHT
HE SITS DOWNEXTN TO THE
WROUGHT IRON FENCE
IRON FENCE AND PLACES
IT WHERE HE WAS
AND PLACES IT WHERE
HE WAS SITTING.
SITTING. HE WALKS
AWAY, LOOKING AT WHAT
HE WALKS AWAY, LOOKING AT WHAT
MAY BE HIS PHONE AND LEAVING THE
MAY BE HIS PHONE AND LEAVING
THE PACK IN POSITION.
PACK IN POSITION. THIS
CCTV FOOTAGE IS TIME-
THIS CCTV FOOTAGE IS TIME-
STAMPED 18:40, EXACTLY 15
MINUTES BEFORE THE EXPLOSION.
HE'S PICKED UP ON ANOTHER
HE'S PICKED UP ON
ANOTHER CAMERA.
CAMERA. THERE HE IS.
THERE HE IS. HE STRIDES
OUT OF THE GATE AND
HE STRIDES OUT OF THE GATE AND
TURNS LEFT TOWARDS THE ERAWAN
TURNS LEFT TOWARDS THE
ERAWAN GRAND HYATT HOTEL.
GRAND HYATT HOTEL. TWO
MORE STILL SHOTS SHOW HIM
TWO MORE STILL SHOTS
SHOW HIM LEAVING.
LEAVING. IT'S HARD TO
TELL WHERE HE MIGHT
IT'S HARD TO TELL WHERE HE MIGHT
BE FROM; SOME SAY CAUCASIAN, OR
BE FROM; SOME SAY CAUCASIAN,
OR MIDDLE EASTERN.
MIDDLE EASTERN. THE
CHIEF OF POLICE SAID HE
THE CHIEF OF POLICE SAID HE
COULD BE THAI OR A FOREIGNER.
WE NOW ALL KNOW WHAT HAPPENED
WE NOW ALL KNOW
WHAT HAPPENED NEXT.
NEXT. BUT THESE
PICTURES, FILMED ON A
BUT THESE PICTURES, FILMED ON
A MOBILE PHONE BY A CHINESE
MOBILE PHONE BY A CHINESE
TOURIST ON A WALKWAY NEARBY,
MAKE FOR CHILLING VIEWING.
DIVERS SEARCH THE MURKY WATER
BELOW THE BRIDGE THIS AFTERNOON.
THIS PIER IS ALSO A COMMUTER AND
THIS PIER IS ALSO A COMMUTER
AND TOURIST HOT SPOT.
TOURIST HOT SPOT. >> IT
HAPPENED LAST NIGHT.
>> IT HAPPENED LAST NIGHT. WE
CROSSED THE RIVER TO TRY TO
WE CROSSED THE RIVER TO
TRY TO GET AWAY FROM IT.
GET AWAY FROM IT. AND
THEN PEOPLE WERE JUST
AND THEN PEOPLE WERE JUST
FALLING INTO THE RIVER.
FALLING INTO THE RIVER. THEY
SAID NO ONE WAS HURT, WHICH
THEY SAID NO ONE WAS HURT, WHICH
IS REALLY GOOD TO KNOW, BUT IT'S
STILL QUITE UNNERVING THAT IT'S
STILL QUITE UNNERVING THAT
IT'S HAPPENING AGAIN.
HAPPENING AGAIN. IN HIS
FIRST TELEVISED ADDRESS
IN HIS FIRST TELEVISED ADDRESS
SINCE LAST YEAR'S COUP, GENERAL
PRAYUTH CHAN-OCHA, THE HEAD OF
THE MILITARY JUNTA, SAID THEY
WERE WORKING TO TRACK DOWN THE
PERPETRATORS OF LAST NIGHT'S
BOMBING, WHAT HE CALLED
"THAILAND'S WORST-EVER ATTACK."
THERE WERE THOSE, HE SAID,
SEEKING TO DESTROY THE COUNTRY.
THE LIST OF POSSIBLE SUSPECTS IS
THE LIST OF POSSIBLE SUSPECTS
IS LONG IN A COUNTRY WRACKED BY
LONG IN A COUNTRY WRACKED
BY POLITICAL VIOLENCE AND
POLITICAL VIOLENCE
AND INSURGENCY.
INSURGENCY. SOME SPECULATE
CHINESE UIGHURS
SOME SPECULATE CHINESE UIGHURS
MIGHT BE BEHIND THIS, SOME THINK
MIGHT BE BEHIND THIS,
SOME THINK JIHADISTS.
JIHADISTS. WHOEVER
IT WAS HAS LEFT
WHOEVER IT WAS HAS LEFT
THAILAND, LAND OF THE FREE,
TRAPPED IN A CONTAGION OF FEAR.
>> Woodruff: SO FAR, THERE'S
BEEN NO CLAIM OF RESPONSIBILITY
FOR EITHER ATTACK.
FOR EITHER ATTACK. IN CHINA,
THUNDERSTORMS HAMPERED
IN CHINA, THUNDERSTORMS HAMPERED
RECOVERY EFFORTS AT A PORT
DEVASTATED BY LAST WEEK'S
CHEMICAL WAREHOUSE EXPLOSIONS.
AS CREWS MONITORED FOR
CONTAMINATION TODAY, CONCERNS
ROSE THAT RAIN COULD SPREAD THE
CHEMICALS, OR EVEN TOUCH OFF NEW
CHEMICALS, OR EVEN TOUCH
OFF NEW EXPLOSIONS.
EXPLOSIONS. >> (
translated): IF WE FIND
>> (translated): IF WE
FIND ANYTHING THAT EXCEEDS, OR
EVEN
ANYTHING THAT EXCEEDS, OR EVEN
SLIGHTLY EXCEEDS, THE SAFETY
SLIGHTLY EXCEEDS, THE
SAFETY STANDARDS, WE HAVE A
STANDARDS, WE HAVE A
PREVENTATIVE FACILITY TO MAKE
SURE ANY CYANIDE POLLUTION IS UP
SURE ANY CYANIDE POLLUTION
IS UP TO STANDARD.
TO STANDARD. THEN WE
WILL DRAIN THE WATER.
THEN WE WILL DRAIN THE WATER.
WE CAN ALSO STRENGTHEN THE
BARRIERS SEALING THE SITE AT THE
MOMENT, TO COMBAT AGAINST ANY
MOMENT, TO COMBAT
AGAINST ANY HEAVY RAIN.
HEAVY RAIN. >> Woodruff:
THE BLAST KILLED
>> Woodruff: THE BLAST
KILLED 114 PEOPLE.
114 PEOPLE. NEARLY
60 OTHERS ARE STILL
NEARLY 60 OTHERS ARE STILL
MISSING, MOST OF THEM
MISSING, MOST OF
THEM FIREFIGHTERS.
FIREFIGHTERS. SEPARATELY,
CHINESE AUTHORITIES
SEPARATELY, CHINESE AUTHORITIES
HAVE CRACKED DOWN ON
CYBERCRIMES, ROUNDING UP 15,000
PEOPLE ON SUSPICION OF HACKING
PEOPLE ON SUSPICION OF
HACKING AND ONLINE FRAUD.
AND ONLINE FRAUD. THE
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC SECURITY
THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC SECURITY
ANNOUNCED THE ARRESTS TODAY, BUT
THE SIX-MONTH SPECIAL OPERATION
TO CLEAN UP THE INTERNET WAS
TO CLEAN UP THE INTERNET
WAS LAUNCHED IN JULY.
LAUNCHED IN JULY. TURKEY
FACED NEW POLITICAL
TURKEY FACED NEW POLITICAL
TURMOIL TODAY AS IT CONFRONTS
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS IN SYRIA
AND KURDISH MILITANTS AT HOME.
THE PRIME MINISTER GAVE UP
TRYING TO FORM A NEW GOVERNMENT,
AFTER WEEKS OF COALITION TALKS
AFTER WEEKS OF COALITION
TALKS FAILED.
FAILED. THE RULING
A.K. PARTY LOST ITS
THE RULING A.K. PARTY LOST ITS
MAJORITY IN PARLIAMENT IN JUNE'S
MAJORITY IN PARLIAMENT
IN JUNE'S ELECTION.
ELECTION. NOW, THE
COUNTRY MAY WELL HAVE
NOW, THE COUNTRY MAY WELL
HAVE TO HOLD NEW ELECTIONS.
TO HOLD NEW ELECTIONS. BACK
IN THIS COUNTRY, A JUDGE IN
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, A JUDGE
IN NEW MEXICO HAS ORDERED TWO
NEW MEXICO HAS ORDERED TWO
POLICE OFFICERS TO STAND TRIAL
FOR MURDER IN THE DEATH OF A
FOR MURDER IN THE DEATH
OF A HOMELESS MAN.
HOMELESS MAN. HE WAS SHOT
DURING AN HOURS-LONG
HE WAS SHOT DURING AN HOURS-LONG
STANDOFF OUTSIDE ALBUQUERQUE
STANDOFF OUTSIDE
ALBUQUERQUE LAST YEAR.
LAST YEAR. VIDEO FROM
AN OFFICER'S HELMET
VIDEO FROM AN OFFICER'S HELMET
CAMERA SHOWED 38-YEAR-OLD JAMES
BOYD APPEARING TO SURRENDER
BEFORE HE WAS SHOT.
AUTHORITIES SAY HE HAD
AUTHORITIES SAY HE
HAD SCHIZOPHRENIA.
SCHIZOPHRENIA. THE
INCIDENT SPARKED PROTESTS
THE INCIDENT SPARKED PROTESTS
AND AN OVERHAUL IN POLICY.
AND AN OVERHAUL IN POLICY. ON
WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
ABOUT 34 POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE
ABOUT 34 POINTS TO
CLOSE ABOVE 17,510.
17,510. THE NASDAQ
FELL 32 POINTS, AND
THE NASDAQ FELL 32 POINTS, AND
THE S&P 500 SLIPPED FIVE.
THE S&P 500 SLIPPED FIVE. STILL
TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE TRUMP FACTOR IN IOWA.
THE TRUMP FACTOR IN IOWA. A
CRITICAL TAKE ON THE IRAN
A CRITICAL TAKE ON THE
IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL.
NUCLEAR DEAL. AND MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: READY OR NOT, THE
2016 CAMPAIGN IS NOW SHIFTING
2016 CAMPAIGN IS NOW
SHIFTING INTO HIGHER GEARS.
INTO HIGHER GEARS. TODAY
ALONE, CANDITES DAWERE
TODAY ALONE, CANDITES DAWERE
FANNED OUT AT EVENTS IN SIX
FANNED OUT AT EVENTS
IN SIX STATES.
STATES. BUT AMONG THE
MORE THAN A SCORE
BUT AMONG THE MORE THAN A SCORE
OF WHITE HOUSE HOPEFULS, ONE IS
DOMINATING THE CONVERSATION.
THE QUESTION IS, HOW WILL THAT
THE QUESTION IS, HOW WILL
THAT TRANSLATE INTO VOTES?
TRANSLATE INTO VOTES? GWEN
IFILL TAKES A LOOK AT THE
GWEN IFILL TAKES A LOOK AT THE
UNCONVENTIONAL DONALD TRUMP
STRATEGY IN IOWA, AND WHETHER
IT'S WORKING WITH THE REPUBLICAN
IT'S WORKING WITH THE
REPUBLICAN FAITHFUL.
FAITHFUL. >> Ifill: HE'S THE
>> Ifill: HE'S THE
ANTI-ESTABLISHMENT CANDIDATE,
PLAYING BY HIS OWN RULES.
PLAYING BY HIS OWN RULES. LET
RICK SANTORUM VISIT ALL 99
LET RICK SANTORUM VISIT ALL
99 COUNTIES, TRUMP HAS ONLY
COUNTIES, TRUMP HAS ONLY
BOTHERED TO COME HERE FIVE TIMES
SINCE HE ANNOUNCED IN JUNE.
>> I THINK ABOUT MY MOTHER
>> I THINK ABOUT
MY MOTHER DOROTHY.
DOROTHY. >> Ifill:
LET HILLARY CLINTON
>> Ifill: LET HILLARY CLINTON
AND BEN CARSON PAY TO RUN SOFT
FOCUS BIOGRAPHICAL ADS IN DES
MOINES AND CEDAR RAPIDS.
MOINES AND CEDAR RAPIDS. >>
THAT'S WHY I'VE ALWAYS DONE
>> THAT'S WHY I'VE ALWAYS DONE
THIS, FOR ALL THE DORTHYS.
THIS, FOR ALL THE DORTHYS. >>
TOGETHER WE CAN MAKE AMERICA
>> TOGETHER WE CAN MAKE
AMERICA GREAT AGAIN.
GREAT AGAIN. >>
Ifill: TRUMP GETS HIS
>> Ifill: TRUMP GETS HIS
ATTENTION FOR FREE.
>> DONALD, DONALD.
>> DONALD, DONALD. DONALD!
DONALD! >> Ifill:
THE RESULT: HE'S
>> Ifill: THE RESULT: HE'S
WELL AHEAD IN EVERY POLL.
THIS IS WHAT UNCONVENTIONAL
THIS IS WHAT
UNCONVENTIONAL LOOKS LIKE.
LOOKS LIKE. LAST WEEKEND
TRUMP BUZZED THE
LAST WEEKEND TRUMP BUZZED THE
STATE FAIR IN HIS BRANDED
STATE FAIR IN HIS
BRANDED HELICOPTER.
HELICOPTER. SUNDAY
HE CALLED FOR THE
SUNDAY HE CALLED FOR THE
DEPORTATION OF IMMIGRANTS AND
THE END OF CONSTITUTIONALLY
PROTECTED BIRTHRIGHT
CITIZENSHIP.
CITIZENSHIP. >> YOU'RE
GOING TO DEPORT
>> YOU'RE GOING TO
DEPORT FAMILIES.
FAMILIES. >> CHECK.
>> CHECK. >> YOU'RE
GOING TO DEPORT
>> YOU'RE GOING TO
DEPORT CHILDREN.
CHILDREN. >> CHECK.
>> CHECK. NO, NO,
WE HAVE TO KEEP THE
NO, NO, WE HAVE TO KEEP
THE FAMILIES TOGETHER.
FAMILIES TOGETHER.
BUT THEY HAVE TO GO.
BUT THEY HAVE TO GO. >> WHAT
IF THEY HAVE NO PLACE TO
>> WHAT IF THEY HAVE
NO PLACE TO GO?
GO? >> WE WILL WORK WITH THEM.
>> WE WILL WORK WITH
THEM. THEY HAVE TO GO.
THEY HAVE TO GO. WE IT'S
VERY A COUNTRY OR WE
WE IT'S VERY A COUNTRY OR
WE DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY.
DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: ALTHOUGH MANY
REPUBLICAN VOTERS LEAD TOWARD
HIS POINT OF VIEW, ONE IOWA
GROUP FOUND ONLY 30% OF LIKELY
CAUCUS VOTERS AGREE, BUT THAT
WOULD BE SWEATING THE DETAILS.
ONE OF TRUMP'S TEN PAID ADVISERS
IN IOWA SAYS POLICY IS NOT
NECESSARILY THE POINT.
NECESSARILY THE POINT. PEOPLE
HAVE PUT A LOT OF MONEY
PEOPLE HAVE PUT A LOT OF MONEY
ON THE GROUND IN TERMS OF JUST
BLANKETING EVERY COUNTY WITH A
PLACE THAT HAS TRUMP SIGNAGE.
YOU'RE NOT DOING IT THAT WAY.
YOU'RE NOT DOING IT THAT WAY. >>
WE'RE REALLY A VOTERS, A LOTW
>> WE'RE REALLY A VOTERS, A LOTW
PEOPLE THAT WANT TO GO TO THE
PEOPLE THAT WANT TO
GO TO THE CAUCUSES.
CAUCUSES. IT'S BEEN
SURPRISING HOW MANY
IT'S BEEN SURPRISING HOW MANY
PEOPLE ARE COMING TO US SAYING
THEY WANT TO VOLUNTEER.
THEY WANT TO VOLUNTEER. WE
HAVEN'T EVEN FOCUSED ON
WE HAVEN'T EVEN FOCUSED ON NEING
EDTO ADD STAFF BECAUSE WE
NEING EDTO ADD STAFF BECAUSE WE
HAVE SO MANY PEOPLE, NEW PEOPLE
COMING OUT WANTING TO VOLUNTEER
COMING OUT WANTING TO
VOLUNTEER TO HELP MR. TRUMP.
TO HELP MR. TRUMP. >>
Ifill: ARTISAN DERS HAVE A
>> Ifill: ARTISAN DERS HAVE A
POLITICAL SCIENCE PROFESSOR AT
DRAKE UNIVERSITY IN DES MOINES.
WHAT ARE WE SEEING HERE, REALITY
WHAT ARE WE SEEING HERE,
REALITY OR A REALITY SHOW?
OR A REALITY SHOW? >> IT'S
SORT OF BOTH AT THE SAME
>> IT'S SORT OF BOTH
AT THE SAME TIME.
TIME. THERE'S A
REAL CAMPAIGN GOING
THERE'S A REAL
CAMPAIGN GOING ON.
ON. BUT WE'RE FAR
ENOUGH OUT THAT
BUT WE'RE FAR ENOUGH OUT THAT
ESPECIALLY WITH DONALD TRUMP IN
THE CAMPAIGN, THAT IT'S LARGELY
PLAYING OUT AS THIS VERY STRANGE
ATTEMPT BY PEOPLE TO GET PEOPLE
TO PAY ATTENTION TO THEM,
ESPECIALLY ON THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE, WHEN THERE ARE SO MANY
>> Ifill: HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN
THE DONALD TRUMP PHENOMENON ON
THE DONALD TRUMP
PHENOMENON ON THE RIGHT?
THE RIGHT? >> PART OF
THE REPUBLICAN BASE
>> PART OF THE REPUBLICAN BASE
ETHOS FOR MANY YEARS HAS BEEN
ETHOS FOR MANY YEARS HAS
BEEN WASHINGTON IS BROKEN,
WASHINGTON IS BROKEN,
POLITICIANS ARE ALL CORRUPT, WE
NEED TO CHANGE THE SYSTEM, AND
OUTSIDERS, TRUE... EVERYBODY ON
OUTSIDERS, TRUE... EVERYBODY
ON THE REPUBLICAN SIDE IS
THE REPUBLICAN SIDE IS
CAMPAIGNING AS AN OUTSIDER, AND
DONALD TRUMP IS THAT TO THE NTH
DONALD TRUMP IS THAT
TO THE NTH DEGREE.
DEGREE. >> Ifill:
WHEN TRUMP IS NOT
>> Ifill: WHEN TRUMP IS NOT
PHYSICALLY IN THE STATE, YOU
HAVE TO SEARCH FOR SIGNS OF HIS
HAVE TO SEARCH FOR
SIGNS OF HIS CAMPAIGN.
CAMPAIGN. THIS IS TRUMP'S ONLY
THIS IS TRUMP'S ONLY
HEADQUARTERS IN IOWA.
HEADQUARTERS IN IOWA. LONG-TIME
ACTIVISTS HAVE NEVER
LONG-TIME ACTIVISTS HAVE
NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT.
SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT. THE
HEAD OF THE CONSERVATIVE
THE HEAD OF THE CONSERVATIVE
GROUP THE FAMILY LEADER INVITED
ALL THE CANDIDATES TO SPEAK AT
ALL THE CANDIDATES TO SPEAK
AT AN IOWA FORUM LAST MONTH.
AN IOWA FORUM LAST MONTH.
HAVE YOU EVER ASKED GOD
HAVE YOU EVER ASKED
GOD FOR FORGIVENESS?
FOR FORGIVENESS? >>
I'M NOT SURE I HAVE.
>> I'M NOT SURE I HAVE. I
JUST GO ON AND TRY TO DO A
I JUST GO ON AND TRY
TO DO A BETTER JOB.
BETTER JOB. I DON'T THINK SO.
I DON'T THINK SO. I THINK
IF I DO SOMETHING WRONG,
I THINK IF I DO SOMETHING WRONG,
I THINK I JUST TRY AND MAKE IT
I THINK I JUST TRY
AND MAKE IT RIGHT.
RIGHT. I DON'T BRING
GOD INTO THAT
I DON'T BRING GOD
INTO THAT PICTURE.
PICTURE. I DON'T.
I DON'T.
NOW, WHEN I TAKE... WHEN WE GO
TO CHURCH AND WHEN I DRINK MY
LITTLE WINE, WHICH IS ABOUT THE
ONLY WINE I DRINK AND HAVE MY
LITTLE CRACKER, I GUESS THAT'S A
FORM OF ASKING FOR FORGIVENESS.
>> Ifill: EVEN THAT ANSWER
DOES NOT APPEAR TO HAVE HURT
DOES NOT APPEAR TO HAVE
HURT TRUMP AMONG CHRISTIAN
TRUMP AMONG CHRISTIAN
CONSERVATIVES.
CONSERVATIVES. >> I
THINK WHAT MR. TRUMP IS
>> I THINK WHAT MR. TRUMP IS
DOING IS HE'S TAKING THIS LACK
OF POLITICAL CORRECTNESS TO A
OF POLITICAL CORRECTNESS
TO A WHOLE OTHER LEVEL.
WHOLE OTHER LEVEL.
HE'S TAPPING INTO THE
FRUSTRATION OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE THAT ARE SICK AND TIRED
PEOPLE THAT ARE SICK AND
TIRED OF THEIR GOVERNMENT.
OF THEIR GOVERNMENT. THEY
BELIEVE POLITICIANS LIE TO
THEY BELIEVE POLITICIANS
LIE TO THEM ALL THE TIME.
THEM ALL THE TIME. AND
WHETHER THEY AGREE WITH HOW
AND WHETHER THEY AGREE WITH HOW
DONALD TRUMP IS SAYING IT OR
THEY DON'T AGREE WITH IT, THEY
JUST LIKE THAT SOMEBODY IS
JUST LIKE THAT
SOMEBODY IS SAYING IT.
SAYING IT. SO THAT'S
WHY DONALD TRUMP IS
SO THAT'S WHY DONALD TRUMP IS
DOING SO WELL IN THE POLLS RIGHT
DOING SO WELL IN THE
POLLS RIGHT NOW.
NOW. >> Ifill: IN THE CASE OF
>> Ifill: IN THE CASE OF
DONALD TRUMP, SIMPLY BEING
FAMOUS MAY BE ENOUGH TO FORCE
EVERY OTHER CANDIDATE TO RESPOND
TO HIS EVERY UTTERANCE.
JUST YESTERDAY WISCONSIN
GOVERNOR SCOTT WALKER, ONCE
CONSIDERED THE FRONT-RUNNER
IOWA, SAID HE AGREED WITH TRUMP
ABOUT REVOKING BIRTHRIGHT
ABOUT REVOKING
BIRTHRIGHT CITIZENSHIP.
CITIZENSHIP. THE TRUMP
IOWA TEAM IS ECSTATIC.
THE TRUMP IOWA TEAM IS ECSTATIC.
HOW MUCH OF THIS IS ABOUT
CELEBRITY AND HOW MUCH OF THIS
CELEBRITY AND HOW MUCH
OF THIS IS ABOUT POLICY?
IS ABOUT POLICY? >> I
WOULD SAY THAT YOU CAN'T
>> I WOULD SAY THAT YOU CAN'T
EVEN REALLY SEPARATE THAT.
BECAUSE POLICY WITH WHAT
BECAUSE POLICY WITH WHAT MR.
TRUMP HAS STARTED TO COME
MR. TRUMP HAS STARTED TO COME
OUT WITH WITH POLICY IS GOING TO
WORK, AND HIS CELEBRITY STATUS
IS WHAT PROBABLY STARTED TO
DRIVE PEOPLE TO QUESTION COMING
DRIVE PEOPLE TO QUESTION
COMING TO SEE HIM.
TO SEE HIM. THEY'RE
TIRED OF PEOPLE HAVING
THEY'RE TIRED OF PEOPLE HAVING
TO STOP AND THINK ABOUT WHAT
THEY'RE GOING TO SAY BEFORE THEY
ANSWER, WHEREAS MR. TRUMP, HE
ANSWER, WHEREAS MR. TRUMP,
HE JUST LETS IT GO.
JUST LETS IT GO. >> Ifill:
AND WHEN TRUMP LETS
>> Ifill: AND WHEN TRUMP LETS IT
GO, HE OVERSHADOWS THE ENTIRE
IT GO, HE OVERSHADOWS THE ENTIRE
RACE, INCLUDING THE LONG LINE OF
RACE, INCLUDING THE LONG LINE
OF CANDIDATES COMPETING FOR
CANDIDATES COMPETING FOR
ATTENTION, MONEY AND VOTES.
ATTENTION, MONEY AND VOTES. FOR
NOW IT'S THREATENING TO TURN
FOR NOW IT'S THREATENING TO TURN
THE ENTIRE RACE UPSIDE DOWN AND
MAY ALREADY HAVE. I'M
GWEN IFILL IN DES MOINES.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
LOST TWO MORE POTENTIAL SENATE
ALLIES IN HIS QUEST FOR SUPPORT
FOR THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL:
REPUBLICAN BOB CORKER, AND
DEMOCRAT ROBERT MENENDEZ.
TONIGHT, WE CONTINUE OUR SERIES
OF CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THE
OF CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT THE AGREEMENT.
AGREEMENT. LAST WEEK
WE TALKED WITH A
LAST WEEK WE TALKED WITH A
SUPPORTER, GARY SAYMORE, WHO HAD
JUST RESIGNED FROM AN ADVOCACY
GROUP WHICH OPPOSED THE DEAL.
TONIGHT, WE TURN TO THE
VIEWPOINT FROM ISRAEL WHERE THE
MAJORITY OF THE POPULATION IS
MAJORITY OF THE POPULATION
IS AGAINST THE AGREEMENT.
AGAINST THE AGREEMENT. JOINING
ME IS EPHRAIM ASCULAI,
JOINING ME IS EPHRAIM ASCULAI,
WHO SPENT MORE THAN 40 YEARS
WORKING AS A SCIENTIST AT THE
ISRAEL ATOMIC ENERGY COMMISSION,
AND FIVE YEARS FOR THE I.A.E.A.
AND FIVE YEARS FOR THE
I.A.E.A. IN VIENNA.
IN VIENNA. HE'S NOW A
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE
HE'S NOW A SENIOR FELLOW AT THE
INSTITUTE FOR NATIONAL SECURITY
INSTITUTE FOR NATIONAL
SECURITY STUDIES IN TEL AVIV.
STUDIES IN TEL AVIV. EPHRAIM
ASCULAI, THANK YOU VERY
EPHRAIM ASCULAI, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH FOR JOINING US.
MUCH FOR JOINING US. YOU
HAVE ARGUED THAT THIS IS A
YOU HAVE ARGUED THAT THIS IS A
DEAL THAT IS DEEPLY FLAWED.
WHAT'S THE MAIN PROBLEM WITH IT
WHAT'S THE MAIN PROBLEM
WITH IT IN YOUR OPINION?
IN YOUR OPINION? >> THE
ISSUE IS GOING TO BE THE
>> THE ISSUE IS GOING TO BE THE
SEARCH FOR CONCEALED FACILITIES,
THE POSSIBLE SEARCH FOR
UNDECLARED FACILITIES, AND THESE
AN WE KNOW AND WE REMEMBER FROM
THE HISTORY OF IRAN ARE VERY
THE HISTORY OF IRAN ARE
VERY PROBABLE ISSUES.
PROBABLE ISSUES. AND LOOKING
FOR THESE SITES, FOR
AND LOOKING FOR THESE SITES, FOR
THESE FACILITIES, WILL BE A
VERY, VERY DIFFICULT ISSUE WITH
THE PRESIDENT'S AGREEMENT.
THE OTHER ISSUE IS LET'S SAY
THAT INTELLIGENCE FINDS OUT
ABOUT AN UNDECLARED CONCEALED
ABOUT AN UNDECLARED
CONCEALED FACILITY.
FACILITY. WHAT WILL
THE PARTIES TO THE
WHAT WILL THE PARTIES
TO THE AGREEMENT DO?
AGREEMENT DO? CAN THEY
GO AND TELL THE IAEA,
CAN THEY GO AND TELL THE IAEA,
AND THIS IS WRITTEN IN THE
AGREEMENT, THEY TELL THE IAEA
THE EXACT SOURCE OF THEIR
THE EXACT SOURCE OF
THEIR INFORMATION.
INFORMATION. THIS IS
NOT ALWAYS POSSIBLE.
THIS IS NOT ALWAYS POSSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
ARGUMENT OF THE PROPONENTS THAT
WHATEVER THE IRANIANS DID TO
WHATEVER THE IRANIANS DID
TO CHEAT WOULD INVOLVE A
CHEAT WOULD INVOLVE A
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF NUCLEAR
MATERIAL THAT BY ITS VERY NATURE
MATERIAL THAT BY ITS VERY
NATURE WOULD BE INDEFINITELY
WOULD BE INDEFINITELY
DISCOVERABLE, THAT IT'S
DIFFICULT IF NOT IMPOSSIBLE TO
DIFFICULT IF NOT IMPOSSIBLE
TO HIDE RADIOACTIVE NUCLEAR
HIDE RADIOACTIVE NUCLEAR
MATERIAL THAT THEY WERE WORKING
MATERIAL THAT THEY
WERE WORKING WITH?
WITH? >> WELL, THERE
ARE TWO ANSWERS
>> WELL, THERE ARE
TWO ANSWERS TO THAT.
TO THAT. THE FIRST
ONE, NOT ALL PROCESSES
THE FIRST ONE, NOT ALL PROCESSES
INVOLVE RELEASES TO THE
ATMOSPHERE OR TO THE ENVIRONMENT
OF NUCLEAR RADIOACTIVE
MATERIALS.
MATERIALS. OF
COURSE REACTORS AND
OF COURSE REACTORS AND
PROCESSING PLANTS ARE MORE PRONE
TO RELEASES, BUT ENRICHMENT
PLANTS ARE LESS PRONE TO THAT.
BUT THIS IS ONLY ONE ASPECT.
BUT THIS IS ONLY ONE ASPECT. THE
OTHER ASPECT IS DEVELOPMENT
THE OTHER ASPECT IS DEVELOPMENT
OF THE EXPLOSIVE MECHANISM,
WHICH DOES NOT INVOLVE IN MANY
PARTS DOES NOT INVOLVE --
FACILITIES WITH RADIOACTIVE
MATERIAL, IT IS NOT ALWAYS
FEASIBLE FOR THE INSPECTORS TO
GO THERE BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT
PERMITTED TO GO AND SEARCH FOR
PERMITTED TO GO AND SEARCH
FOR THESE FACILITIES.
THESE FACILITIES. >>
Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
ABOUT ANOTHER ASPECT OF.
ABOUT ANOTHER ASPECT OF. THIS
WE KNOW JUST IN THE LAST
THIS WE KNOW JUST IN THE LAST
FEW DAYS THE ISRAELI DEFENSE
FORCES HAVE PUT OUT A STRATEGIC
PAPER TALKING ABOUT THE MAJOR
THREATS FACING THE NATION OF
THREATS FACING THE
NATION OF ISRAEL.
ISRAEL. A 33-PAGE
REPORT THAT BARELY
A 33-PAGE REPORT THAT BARELY
MENTIONS IRAN OR ITS NUCLEAR
MENTIONS IRAN OR ITS
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
PROGRAM. >> WELL, I DON'T KNOW.
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW. I
THINK THIS IS ONLY THE
I THINK THIS IS ONLY THE
UNCLASSIFIED PROGRAM THAT WAS
UNCLASSIFIED PROGRAM THAT
WAS PUBLISHED IN THE PRESS.
PUBLISHED IN THE PRESS. I
THINK THAT THERE'S A MUCH
I THINK THAT THERE'S A MUCH
LONGER DOCUMENT, WHICH IS
CLASSIFIED, AND I THINK THAT
IRAN PROBABLY PREACHES QUITE A
IRAN PROBABLY
PREACHES QUITE A LOT.
LOT. >> Woodruff: I ALSO WANT TO
>> Woodruff: I ALSO WANT TO ASK
YOU ABOUT SOMETHING THAT THE
ASK YOU ABOUT SOMETHING
THAT THE ANY
ANY "THE NEW YORK
TIMES" COLUMNIST
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" COLUMNIST
TOM FRIEDMAN WROTE IN THE LAST
TOM FRIEDMAN WROTE
IN THE LAST WEEK.
WEEK. HE POINTED
OUT, HE SAYS ISRAEL
HE POINTED OUT, HE SAYS ISRAEL
HAS ITSELF BETWEEN 100 AND 200
HAS ITSELF BETWEEN 100
AND 200 NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
NUCLEAR WEAPONS. IT HAS
THE ABILITY TO DELIVER
IT HAS THE ABILITY TO
DELIVER THEM TO IRAN.
THEM TO IRAN. AND HE
SAID... HIS POINT IS
AND HE SAID... HIS POINT IS
KNOWING HOW OUTMATCHED IT IS,
WHY IN THE WORLD WOULD IRAN
LAUNCH ANY KIND OF AN ATTACK ON
ISRAEL, KNOWING WHAT THAT WOULD
ISRAEL, KNOWING WHAT THAT
WOULD MEAN IN RETURN?
MEAN IN RETURN? >> I
WANT TO ASK WHY IRAN IS
>> I WANT TO ASK WHY IRAN IS
PROCLAIMING THAT IT WANTS TO
ANIGH -- ANNIHILATE ISRAEL.
ANIGH -- ANNIHILATE ISRAEL. I
DON'T THINK IRAN IS AFRAID OF
I DON'T THINK IRAN IS AFRAID
OF ISRAEL IF IT DENIES THE
ISRAEL IF IT DENIES THE
HOLOCAUST, IF IT WANTS TO
HOLOCAUST, IF IT WANTS
TO DESTROY ISRAEL.
DESTROY ISRAEL. IT
PROBABLY IS NOT VERY SANE.
IT PROBABLY IS NOT VERY SANE.
I THINK THEY REALLY MEAN IT.
I THINK THEY REALLY MEAN IT. AND
IF THEY MEAN IT, ISRAEL HAS
AND IF THEY MEAN IT, ISRAEL HAS
TO BE PREPARED AND TAKE ALL
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST IT.
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST IT. >>
Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU THINK
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU THINK
THE BETTER ALTERNATIVE IS,
THE BETTER ALTERNATIVE
IS, MR. ASCULAI?
MR. ASCULAI? WHAT BETTER
AGREEMENT COULD BE
WHAT BETTER AGREEMENT COULD BE
REACHED WITH IRAN AND THE OTHER
FIVE NATIONS THAT WOULD REACH...
THAT WOULD ACHIEVE THE KIND OF
SATISFACTORY ARRANGEMENT THAT
SATISFACTORY ARRANGEMENT
THAT YOU THINK IS NECESSARY?
YOU THINK IS NECESSARY? >> I
THINK THAT THE PRESIDENT'S
>> I THINK THAT THE PRESIDENT'S
AGREEMENT CAN BE MODIFIED.
AGREEMENT CAN BE MODIFIED. OKAY.
OKAY. IF IT'S GOING BACK TO THE
IF IT'S GOING BACK TO
THE DRAWING BOARD.
DRAWING BOARD. I KNOW.
I KNOW. I REALIZE.
I REALIZE. IT PROBABLY
IS VERY DIFFICULT.
IT PROBABLY IS VERY DIFFICULT.
BUT TREATIES HAVE BEEN MODIFIED
OVER THE YEARS, MANY TREATIES
OVER THE YEARS, MANY
TREATIES HAVE BEEN MODIFIED.
HAVE BEEN MODIFIED. AND I
THINK IF YOU MODIFY THIS
AND I THINK IF YOU MODIFY THIS
ONE, YOU COULD GET A BETTER
RESULT, PERHAPS NOT A PERFECT
ONE, BUT A MUCH BETTER RESULT
ONE, BUT A MUCH BETTER
RESULT COULD BE ACHIEVED.
COULD BE ACHIEVED. SO MANY
THINGS WERE LEFT OUT, SO
SO MANY THINGS WERE LEFT OUT, SO
MANY THINGS THAT WERE DISCUSSED
DURING THE LAST YEAR OR SO
WITHIN THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY, AND THEY WERE LEFT
COMMUNITY, AND THEY
WERE LEFT OUT.
OUT. AND THAT'S A PITY.
AND THAT'S A PITY. >>
Woodruff: EPHRAIM ASCULAI,
>> Woodruff: EPHRAIM ASCULAI,
FORMER OFFICIAL WITH THE IAEA
JOINING US TONIGHT FROM ISRAEL.
JOINING US TONIGHT FROM
ISRAEL. THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH. >>
YOU'RE MOST WELCOME.
>> YOU'RE MOST WELCOME. >>
Woodruff: AND WE WILL HAVE
>> Woodruff: AND WE WILL HAVE
MORE VIEWPOINTS ON THE IRAN
AGREEMENT IN THE COMING DAYS AND
AGREEMENT IN THE
COMING DAYS AND WEEKS.
WEEKS. ALL OF OUR
DEAL OR NO DEAL
ALL OF OUR DEAL OR NO DEAL
INTERVIEWS CAN BE SEEN ON OUR
INTERVIEWS CAN BE
SEEN ON OUR WEB
WEB >> Woodruff:
WE WILL HAVE MORE
>> Woodruff: WE WILL HAVE MORE
VIEWPOINTS ON THE IRAN AGREEMENT
IN THE COMING DAYS AND WEEKS.
ALL OF OUR "DEAL OR NO DEAL"
INTERVIEWS CAN BE SEEN ON OUR
INTERVIEWS CAN BE
SEEN ON OUR WEBSITE.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STARTING THE COLLEGE EXPERIENCE
WHILE STILL ENROLLED IN HIGH
WHILE STILL ENROLLED
IN HIGH SCHOOL.
SCHOOL. INNOVATIONS
IN TELEMEDICINE THAT
INNOVATIONS IN TELEMEDICINE THAT
INCREASE ACCESS TO CARE FOR
PATIENTS IN RURAL AMERICA.
PATIENTS IN RURAL AMERICA. AND,
WHAT WE'VE GOTTEN ALL WRONG
AND, WHAT WE'VE GOTTEN ALL WRONG
ABOUT ROBERT FROST'S POEM, "THE
ABOUT ROBERT FROST'S POEM,
"THE ROAD NOT TAKEN."
ROAD NOT TAKEN." BUT
FIRST, WE TURN NOW TO OUR
BUT FIRST, WE TURN NOW TO OUR
ARMED FORCES, AND A NEW BARRIER
BROKEN BY TWO YOUNG WOMEN.
LONG MARCHES, RIGOROUS DRILLS,
62 DAYS THAT PUSH YOU TO THE
62 DAYS THAT PUSH YOU TO
THE LIMIT, AND BEYOND.
LIMIT, AND BEYOND. THE ARMY
RANGER TRAINING PROGRAM
THE ARMY RANGER TRAINING PROGRAM
IN FORT BENNING, GEORGIA TESTS
THE ABILITY TO OVERCOME FATIGUE,
HUNGER AND STRESS DURING COMBAT.
NOW, FOR THE FIRST TIME, TWO
WOMEN, BOTH OF THEM OFFICERS AND
WEST POINT GRADUATES, HAVE MADE
WEST POINT GRADUATES,
HAVE MADE THE GRADE.
THE GRADE. JUST LAST
WEEK, ARMY CHIEF OF
JUST LAST WEEK, ARMY CHIEF
OF STAFF GENERAL RAY ODIERNO
STAFF GENERAL RAY ODIERNO
PRAISED THEIR EFFORT, AS HE
PRAISED THEIR EFFORT,
AS HE FORMALLY RETIRED.
FORMALLY RETIRED. >> THEY'VE
IMPRESSED ALL THEY'VE
>> THEY'VE IMPRESSED ALL
THEY'VE COME IN CONTACT WITH.
COME IN CONTACT WITH.
THEY'VE MOTIVATED.
THEY'VE MOTIVATED. THAT'S
WHAT WE WANT OUT OF OUR
THAT'S WHAT WE WANT
OUT OF OUR SOLDIERS.
SOLDIERS. >> Woodruff:
THE ARMY HAS NOT
>> Woodruff: THE ARMY HAS
NOT RELEASED THEIR NAMES.
RELEASED THEIR NAMES. ON
GRADUATION FRIDAY, THEY'LL BE
ON GRADUATION FRIDAY, THEY'LL BE
AWARDED THE PRESTIGIOUS RANGER
TAB TO WEAR ON THEIR UNIFORMS.
BUT UNLIKE THE 94 MALE
GRADUATES, THEY WILL NOT YET BE
ALLOWETO SD ERVE IN ELITE RANGER
ALLOWETO SD ERVE IN
ELITE RANGER UNITS.
UNITS. THE PENTAGON
STILL BANS WOMEN
THE PENTAGON STILL BANS WOMEN
FROM SERVING IN COMBAT.
FROM SERVING IN COMBAT. HOWEVER,
THAT COULD SOON CHANGE.
HOWEVER, THAT COULD SOON CHANGE.
IN JANUARY OF 2013, THEN-DEFENSE
SECRETARY LEON PANETTA ORDERED
ALL OF THE SERVICES TO STUDY THE
ALL OF THE SERVICES
TO STUDY THE ISSUE.
ISSUE. >> WE'RE
NOT TALKING ABOUT
>> WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
REDUCING THE QUALIFICATIONS FOR
REDUCING THE QUALIFICATIONS
FOR THE JOB.
THE JOB. IF THEY CAN MEET THE
IF THEY CAN MEET THE
QUALIFICATIONS FOR THE JOB, THEN
THEY SHOULD HAVE RIGHT TO SERVE,
REGARDLESS OF CREED OR COLOR OR
GENDER OR SEXUAL ORIENTATION.
>> Woodruff: THE MILITARY HAS
UNTIL JANUARY TO OPEN ALL COMBAT
JOBS TO WOMEN OR EXPLAIN WHY ANY
JOBS TO WOMEN OR EXPLAIN WHY
ANY MUST REMAIN CLOSED.
MUST REMAIN CLOSED. FOR MORE
ON THE MILITARY'S PLANS
FOR MORE ON THE MILITARY'S PLANS
TO EXPAND THE NUMBER OF COMBAT
JOBS TO WOMEN, I'M JOINED BY
RETIRED COLONEL ELLEN HARING.
SHE'S A 30-YEAR VETERAN OF THE
SHE'S A 30-YEAR
VETERAN OF THE ARMY.
ARMY. IN 2012, SHE
SUED TO REMOVE
IN 2012, SHE SUED TO REMOVE
BARRIERS TO WOMEN SERVING IN THE
BARRIERS TO WOMEN SERVING
IN THE MILITARY.
MILITARY. SHE'S NOW A
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE
SHE'S NOW A SENIOR FELLOW AT
THE ORGANIZATION WOMEN IN
ORGANIZATION WOMEN IN
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY.
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY. AND
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON IS A
AND GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON IS A
JOURNALIST AND SENIOR FELLOW AT
JOURNALIST AND SENIOR FELLOW
AT THE COUNCIL ON FOREIGN
THE COUNCIL ON
FOREIGN RELATIONS.
RELATIONS. SHE IS
ALSO THE AUTHOR OF
SHE IS ALSO THE AUTHOR OF
"ASHLEY'S WAR: THE UNTOLD STORY
OF A TEAM OF WOMEN SOLDIERS ON
THE SPECIAL OPS BATTLEFIELD."
AND WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
AND WE WELCOME YOU
BOTH TO THE PROGRAM.
PROGRAM. COLONEL
HARING, TO YOU FIRST.
COLONEL HARING, TO YOU FIRST.
JUST HOW SIGNIFICANT IS IT THAT
THESE TWO WOMEN, FIRST TWO
WOMEN, ARE COMING OUT OF RANGER
TRAINING SCHOOL SUCCESSFULLY?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S ENORMOUS.
I'VE GOT TO TELL YOU THAT THE
WEST POINT COMMUNITY, AT LEAST
THE WEST POINT WOMEN HAVE BEEN
JUST... I CAN'T EVEN DESCRIBE
THE LEVEL OF ENTHUSIASM AND
EXCITEMENT THAT HAS BEEN POURING
OUT OF THE WOMEN GRADUATES
COMMUNITY RIGHT NOW.
COMMUNITY RIGHT NOW. LOOK
AT OUR FACEBOOK SITE AND
LOOK AT OUR FACEBOOK SITE AND
EVERYBODY HAS JUST PICTURES OF
THE RANGERS SCHOOL AND WHAT THIS
THE RANGERS SCHOOL AND
WHAT THIS MEANS TO US.
MEANS TO US. >>
Woodruff: GAYLE TZEMACH
>> Woodruff: GAYLE TZEMACH
LEMMON, YOU HAVE BEEN REPORTING
ON THIS RANGER PROGRAM FOR A
ON THIS RANGER PROGRAM
FOR A NUMBER OF MONTHS.
NUMBER OF MONTHS. HOW IS
EVERYONE INVOLVED IN THE
HOW IS EVERYONE INVOLVED IN
THE PROGRAM VIEWING THIS?
PROGRAM VIEWING THIS? >> WELL,
I THINK FOR LEADERSHIP,
>> WELL, I THINK FOR LEADERSHIP,
YOU KNOW, THE ISSUE WAS WE WANT
TO KEEP THE STANDARD THE SAME,
AND WE WANT THE PROVE TO PEOPLE
THAT NOTHING WILL BE CHANGED.
WE'RE ONLY GIVING WOMEN A CHANCE
TO MEET THAT SAME STANDARD.
WHAT YOU HEARD FROM EVERYBODY
THE MOMENT YOU WOULD REACH FORT
BENING IN GEORGIA WAS WE DON'T
WANT A DIFFERENT STANDARD, FROM
WANT A DIFFERENT STANDARD,
FROM ALL OF THESE WOMEN.
ALL OF THESE WOMEN. SO I
THINK WHAT YOU SEE TODAY IS
SO I THINK WHAT YOU SEE TODAY IS
A LOT OF WOMEN IN THE ARMY WHO
HAVE WATCHED VERY CAREFULLY TO
SEE HOW THESE WOMEN WOULD DO.
THEY'RE JUST INCREDIBLY PROUD.
ONE OF THE WOMEN WHO IS AN
OBSERVER WHO WAS PART OF THE
RANGER SCHOOL SAID TO ME, YOU
KNOW, THIS JUST SHOWS HOW MUCH
KNOW, THIS JUST SHOWS HOW
MUCH WE CAN DO IF GIVEN THE
WE CAN DO IF GIVEN
THE OPPORTUNITY.
OPPORTUNITY. >> Woodruff:
COLONEL HARING,
>> Woodruff: COLONEL HARING,
JUST HOW HARD IS THIS?
JUST HOW HARD IS THIS? HOW
DIFFERENT IS THIS FROM
HOW DIFFERENT IS THIS FROM
REGULAR TRAINING THAT ANY MAN OR
WOMAN WOULD GO THROUGH IN THE
WOMAN WOULD GO
THROUGH IN THE ARMY?
ARMY? >> ONLY 3%
OF THE ARMY EVER
>> ONLY 3% OF THE ARMY EVER
QUALIFIES TO BE AN ARMY RANGER.
JUST THAT IS A TESTAMENT TO HOW
JUST THAT IS A TESTAMENT TO
HOW DIFFICULT THE PROGRAM IS.
DIFFICULT THE PROGRAM IS.
LESS THAN HALF OF THE PEOPLE
THAT ATTEMPT TO COURSE ACTUALLY
SUCCEED, AND BY PEOPLE, IT'S
ALWAYS BEEN MEN, SO IT'S FEWER
THAN HALF OF THE MEN WHO ATTEMPT
THE COURT ARE ACTUALLY AWARDED
THE COURT ARE ACTUALLY
AWARDED THE RANGER TAG.
THE RANGER TAG. SO I
THINK IT'S TREMENDOUSLY
SO I THINK IT'S
TREMENDOUSLY DIFFICULT.
DIFFICULT. IT'S 61 DAYS LONG.
IT'S 61 DAYS LONG. IT'S
MULTIPLE DIFFERENT AREAS OF
IT'S MULTIPLE DIFFERENT AREAS OF
THE COUNTRY THAT THEY TRAIN IN.
THE COUNTRY THAT THEY TRAIN
IN. AND EVENTUALLY IF THEY'RE
AND EVENTUALLY IF THEY'RE
SUCCESSFUL, THEY'RE AWARDED THE
SUCCESSFUL, THEY'RE
AWARDED THE RANGER TAB.
RANGER TAB. OF COURSE,
NOW IT'S TWO WOMEN
OF COURSE, NOW IT'S TWO WOMEN
WHO WILL ALSO BE WEARING THAT
WHO WILL ALSO BE WEARING
THAT RANGER TAB.
RANGER TAB. >> Woodruff:
GAYLE, WHY IS IT
>> Woodruff: GAYLE, WHY IS IT
SO HARD TO GET THROUGH THIS?
>> I THINK IT'S THE ULTIMATE
TEST OF YOUR GRIT AND ENDURANCE
AND HOW BAD YOU WANT IT.
IT'S 61 DAYS IF YOU MAKE IT
STRAIGHT THROUGH, BUT WELL OVER
ONE-THIRD OF MEN DO NOT DO THAT,
AND THESE WOMEN ALSO HAVE NOT.
THEY'VE NOW BEEN IN THE PROGRAM
FOR MORE THAN 100 DAYS SOME THIS
IS A HUGE TEST OF YOUR PHYSICAL
ABILITY, OF YOUR MENTAL POWER
AND OF YOUR REAL GRIT TO WANT TO
AND OF YOUR REAL GRIT
TO WANT TO GO ON.
GO ON. I INTERVIEWED
A RANGER WHO WAS
I INTERVIEWED A RANGER WHO WAS
PART OF LEADING RANGER SCHOOL,
AND HE SAID, YOU KNOW, SOME
PEOPLE WERE ARGUING THIS IS PART
OF AN AGENDA, BUT ONCE YOU SEE
THESE WOMEN IN ACTION, YOU SEE
HOW BADLY THEY WANT THAT AND HOW
HARD THEY WORK TO DO IT, THEY
CHANGE HEARTS AND MINDS.
CHANGE HEARTS AND MINDS. >>
Woodruff: COLONEL HARING, I
>> Woodruff: COLONEL HARING, I
WANT TO COME BACK TO WHAT YOU
SAID INITIALLY, THAT THIS IS A
BIG DEAL, AND YET THESE WOMEN
WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SERVE AS
WILL NOT BE ABLE TO
SERVE AS RANGERS.
RANGERS. THEY HAVE
THE BADGE, BUT THEY
THEY HAVE THE BADGE, BUT
THEY STILL CAN'T SERVE.
STILL CAN'T SERVE. SO
WHY... HOW MUCH DOES IT
SO WHY... HOW MUCH DOES
IT MATTER IN THAT REGARD?
MATTER IN THAT REGARD? >>
WELL, I THINK THAT IS REALLY
>> WELL, I THINK THAT IS REALLY
IMPORTANT AND SIGNIFICANT, AND
WE NEED TO... WE REALLY NEED TO
PUSH THE ARMY TO GO FORWARD WITH
WITH WITH THIS BECAUSE I THINK
THIS IS ONE STEP TOWARD TO VETCH
OPENING OF THE 75th RANGER
OPENING OF THE 75th
RANGER REGIMENT.
REGIMENT. I CAN'T
IMAGINE THAT THE ARMY
I CAN'T IMAGINE THAT THE ARMY
WOULD CONTINUE TO DENY WOMEN THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE IN THE
REGIMENT IF THEY'RE QUALIFIED AS
REGIMENT IF THEY'RE
QUALIFIED AS RANGERS.
RANGERS. I MEAN, IT'S OPENING
I MEAN, IT'S OPENING
ADDITIONAL DEMOGRAPHIC TO THE
ADDITIONAL DEMOGRAPHIC
TO THE ARMY.
ARMY. IF ONLY 3% OF MEN CAN GET
IF ONLY 3% OF MEN CAN GET
THROUGH AND NOW YOU HAVE THIS
ADDITIONAL DEMOGRAPHIC WITH
A%AGE OF WOMEN, THAT GIVES YOU
JUST THAT MUCH GREATER OF A POOL
OF RANGER-QUALIFIED CANDIDATES
OF RANGER-QUALIFIED
CANDIDATES TO SELECT FROM.
TO SELECT FROM. >>>>
Woodruff: GAYLE LEMMON, HOW
>>>> Woodruff: GAYLE LEMMON, HOW
MUCH BEARING DO YOU BELIEVE THIS
ACHIEVEMENT WILL HAVE ON THE
MILITARY'S DECISION COMING UP?
>> I THINK THIS IS ONE MORE STEP
>> I THINK THIS IS ONE
MORE STEP AS ELLEN SAID.
AS ELLEN SAID. IT'S MUCH
HARDER TO TALK ABOUT
IT'S MUCH HARDER TO TALK ABOUT
SOMETHING IN THE ABSTRACT WHEN
IT'S NOW MOVED INTO CONCRETE
IT'S NOW MOVED INTO
CONCRETE REALITY.
REALITY. THERE HAVE BEEN SO MANY
THERE HAVE BEEN SO MANY
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT CAN WOMEN
MEET THE STANDARD, WILL THEY,
WHAT DO WE HAVE TO DO, AND NOW
THAT THEY'VE MET IT, IT MOVES
FROM ABSTRACTION TO PRACTICAL
REALITY, AND SO IT GETS MUCH
HARDER AS GENERAL ODIERNO, AS AS
HARDER AS GENERAL ODIERNO, AS
AS WHO HAVE BEEN LEADING THIS
WHO HAVE BEEN LEADING THIS
EFFORT TALK ABOUT, IT'S MUCH
HARDER TO SAY YOU CAN'T HAVE
THAT OPPORTUNITY WHEN YOU'VE
ALREADY SHOWN YOU CAN MEET THE
ALREADY SHOWN YOU CAN MEET
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE.
STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE. AND,
YOU KNOW, I THINK ONE OTHER
AND, YOU KNOW, I THINK ONE OTHER
POINT IS THAT WOMEN HAVE BEEN
OUT THERE A LONGSIDE RANGERS.
"AUERBACHLY'S WAR" WAS ABOUT A
TEAM OF WOMEN RECRUITED FOR
NIGHT RAIDS IN 2011 TO GO ON
NIGHT RAIDS IN 2011 TO GO
ON THESE KINDS OF COMBAT
THESE KINDS OF
COMBAT OPERATIONS.
OPERATIONS. THIS IS NOT
ENTIRELY NEW FOR THE
THIS IS NOT ENTIRELY NEW
FOR THE ARMY EITHER.
ARMY EITHER. >> Woodruff:
COLONEL HARING,
>> Woodruff: COLONEL HARING,
LET'S TALK ABOUT THAT.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THAT. WHAT
EXACTLY WOULD WOMEN BE
WHAT EXACTLY WOULD WOMEN BE
DOING IN COMBAT THAT THEY CAN'T
DOING IN COMBAT THAT
THEY CAN'T DO NOW?
DO NOW? WHAT IS
RESTRICTED THAT YOU AND
WHAT IS RESTRICTED THAT YOU AND
OTHERS WOULD ARGUE THE BARRIERS
NEED TO COME DOWN SO THEY CAN DO
NEED TO COME DOWN SO
THEY CAN DO THAT?
THAT? >> SO THERE'S
STILL 220,000
>> SO THERE'S STILL 220,000
POLLSES CLOSED TO WOMEN,
BASICALLY ALL INFANTRY IN BOTH
THE ARMY AND THE MARINE CORPS IS
CLOSED TO WOMEN, ALL ARMOUR IN
BOTH THOSE SERVICES AS WELL AS
ALL OF THE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
CAREER FIELDS CONTINUE TO BE
COMPLETELY CLOSED TO WOMEN.
SO THAT'S A LOT OF POSITIONS.
AND THEY HAVE OPENED ABOUT
100,000 POSITIONS IN THE LAST
TWO AND A HALF YEARS, BUT THAT
WAS ONE-THIRD OF POSITIONS
WAS ONE-THIRD OF
POSITIONS CLOSED.
CLOSED. NOW WE'RE
HERE AT THE END OF
NOW WE'RE HERE AT THE
END OF THREE YEARS.
THREE YEARS. THEY'VE
OPENED ONE-THIRD OF THE
THEY'VE OPENED ONE-THIRD OF THE
POSITIONS BUT STILL TWO-THIRDS
POSITIONS BUT STILL
TWO-THIRDS REMAIN CLOSED.
REMAIN CLOSED. >> Woodruff:
BUT GAYLE LEMMON,
>> Woodruff: BUT GAYLE LEMMON,
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
WHAT THEY CAN DO AND WHAT THEY
WANT TO DO AND WHAT OTHERS ARE
ARGUING THEY SHOULD BE ABLE TO
ARGUING THEY SHOULD
BE ABLE TO DO?
DO? >> WHAT I HAVE
BEEN POINTING OUT
>> WHAT I HAVE BEEN POINTING OUT
IS THERE IS A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
WHAT WOMEN HAVE BEEN DOING AND
WHAT THEY COULD DO ONLY IN THE
SENSE THAT THEY HAVE BEEN
SUPPORTING RANGERS AND SEALS ON
THESE KINDS OF OPERATIONS, BUT
THEY COULDN'T BECOME RANGERS AND
THEY COULDN'T BECOME RANGERS
AND SEALS IN THEIR OWN RIGHT.
SEALS IN THEIR OWN RIGHT. I
THINK PART OF THAT WAS THEY
I THINK PART OF THAT WAS THEY
HAD NOT HAD THE TRAINING.
HAD NOT HAD THE TRAINING. THEY
HAD NOT HAD THE OPPORTUNITY
THEY HAD NOT HAD THE OPPORTUNITY
TO DO THINGS LIKE RANGER SCHOOL.
SO NOW WOMEN ARE SHOWING NOT
ONLY CAN WE SHOW THAT WE MAKE A
DIFFERENCE ON THE BATTLEFIELD,
WHICH THEY DID, AND THAT'S
REALLY THE WORLD THAT "ASHLEY'S
WAR" SHOWED US, BUT IT SAYS,
GIVE US THE CHANCE TO MEET A
GIVE US THE CHANCE TO MEET
A VERY HIGH STANDARD.
VERY HIGH STANDARD. DON'T
LOWER IT, BUT LET US RISE
DON'T LOWER IT, BUT
LET US RISE TO IT.
TO IT. THAT'S WHERE YOU SEE
THAT'S WHERE YOU SEE
CONVERSATION GOING NOW, WHETHER
THEY CAN BE SEALS AND RANGERS IN
THEIR OWN RIGHT COME JANUARY 1.
>> Woodruff: SPEAKING OF THAT,
WHEN IT COMES DOWN TO THIS
DECISION, THE MILITARY IS GOING
TO BE MAKING, ARE ALL THE
BRANCHES PRETTY MUCH IN AN EQUAL
BRANCHES PRETTY MUCH IN AN
EQUAL POSITION TO OPEN?
POSITION TO OPEN? YOU
MENTIONED BEFORE THERE ARE
YOU MENTIONED BEFORE THERE ARE
SOME HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
POSITIONS CLOSED TO WOMEN.
POSITIONS CLOSED TO WOMEN. ARE
THE BRANCHES EQUALLY OPEN TO
ARE THE BRANCHES EQUALLY
OPEN TO CONSIDERING THIS?
CONSIDERING THIS?
HOW DO YOU SEE IT?
HOW DO YOU SEE IT? >>
SO I THINK THEY TAKE
>> SO I THINK THEY TAKE
DIFFERENT APPROACHES.
DIFFERENT APPROACHES. I
THINK THE ARMY HAS BEEN THE
I THINK THE ARMY HAS BEEN THE
MOST OPEN AND THEY HAVE LOOKED
AT HOW ARE WE GOING TO INTEGRATE
WOMEN, WHEREAS I THINK THAT THE
SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMUNITY AS
WELL AS THE MARINES HAVE BEEN
MORE SCEPTICAL, AND THEY HAVE
SAID KIND OF WHETHER THEY SHOULD
SAID KIND OF WHETHER THEY
SHOULD OPEN THESE POSITIONS.
OPEN THESE POSITIONS. I
THINK THE SERVICES HAVE
I THINK THE SERVICES HAVE
DEFINITELY APPROACHED THIS DIFL
AS WELL AS SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AS WELL AS SPECIAL
OPERATIONS COMMAND.
COMMAND. I THINK THE
MARINE CORPS IS VERY
I THINK THE MARINE CORPS IS VERY
RESISTANT STILL AND I THINK THE
RESISTANT STILL AND I THINK
THE ARMY IS INCHING FORWARD
ARMY IS INCHING FORWARD
CAUTIOUSLY, BUT MORE
AGGRESSIVELY OR PROGRESSIVELY
THAN THE MARINE CORPS CERTAINLY
AND SPECIAL OPERATIONS, YOU
KNOW, I'M... I HAVEN'T HEARD
MUCH ABOUT WHAT THEY'RE DOING.
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THIS ONE
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF
THIS ONE ASSESSMENT.
ASSESSMENT. >> Woodruff:
QUICKLY, GAYLE
>> Woodruff: QUICKLY, GAYLE
LEMMON, WHAT ARE YOU HEARING
ABOUT WHAT THE SERVICES ARE
ABOUT WHAT THE SERVICES
ARE LIKELY TO DO?
LIKELY TO DO? >>
EVERYONE IS WATCHING AND
>> EVERYONE IS WATCHING
AND WAITING TO SEE.
WAITING TO SEE. THERE
ARE STUDIES THE SPECIAL
THERE ARE STUDIES THE SPECIAL
OPERATIONS COMMAND COMMISSIONED
THAT THEY'RE REVIEWING NOW.
EVERYBODY IS WAITING TO SEE
WHETHER WOMEN WILL HAVE THAT
WHETHER WOMEN WILL
HAVE THAT CHANCE.
CHANCE. BY OCTOBER
1, THERE'S A REPORT
BY OCTOBER 1, THERE'S A REPORT
DUE TO THE SECOND THEY OF
DEFENSE ABOUT WHAT THE SERVICES
ARE URGING THE SECRETARY OF
ARE URGING THE SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE TO DO.
DEFENSE TO DO. I THINK
WE'LL KNOW A LOT MORE
I THINK WE'LL KNOW
A LOT MORE THEN.
THEN. ALL THESE YOUNG
WOMEN WANT TO DO
ALL THESE YOUNG WOMEN WANT TO
DO IS SERVE TO THE GREATEST OF
IS SERVE TO THE GREATEST
OF THEIR CAPACITY.
THEIR CAPACITY. THEY'RE
NOT GOING OUT THERE TO
THEY'RE NOT GOING OUT
THERE TO PROVE A POINT.
PROVE A POINT. THEY'RE
GOING OUT THERE TO SERVE
THEY'RE GOING OUT THERE
TO SERVE WITH RPOSPUE.
WITH RPOSPUE. >>
Woodruff: GAYLE TZEMACH
>> Woodruff: GAYLE TZEMACH
LEMMON AND COLONEL HARING, WE
LEMMON AND COLONEL HARING,
WE THANK YOU BOTH.
THANK YOU BOTH. >> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT TONIGHT, WE
CONTINUE OUR SERIES, "RETHINKING
COLLEGE: CLOSING THE GRADUATION
GAP," WITH A STORY ABOUT A
UNIQUE EXPERIMENT ON THE BORDER
UNIQUE EXPERIMENT ON
THE BORDER OF MEXICO.
OF MEXICO. THERE, A
HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
THERE, A HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
AND A LOCAL COLLEGE HAVE
COMBINED FORCES TO DRAMATICALLY
INCREASE THE NUMBER OF COLLEGE
GRADUATES IN THE REGION.
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN
SUPERINTENDENT DANIEL KING WALKS
THE HALLS OF HIS SOUTH TEXAS
THE HALLS OF HIS SOUTH
TEXAS HIGH SCHOOL --
HIGH SCHOOL -- >> HOW
ARE YOU GUYS DOING?
>> HOW ARE YOU GUYS DOING?
>> Sreenivasan: HE'S NOT
>> Sreenivasan: HE'S NOT FOCUSED
ON THE FACT THAT NEARLY
FOCUSED ON THE FACT THAT NEARLY
ALL OF HIS STUDENTS WILL LIVE IN
ALL OF HIS STUDENTS
WILL LIVE IN POVERTY.
POVERTY. >> GOOD MNINORG.
>> GOOD MNINORG. >>
Sreenivasan: OR THAT ALMOST
>> Sreenivasan: OR THAT ALMOST
HALF LEARNED ENGLISH AS A SECOND
HALF LEARNED ENGLISH
AS A SECOND LANGUAGE.
LANGUAGE. WHAT KING
TALKS ABOUT ALMOST
WHAT KING TALKS ABOUT ALMOST
EXCLUSIVELY IS COLLEGE.
EXCLUSIVELY IS COLLEGE. >>
HAVE YOU STARTED COLLEGE
>> HAVE YOU STARTED
COLLEGE CLASSES ALREADY?
CLASSES ALREADY? >> YES.
>> YES. >> Sreenivasan:
IN A DISTRICT
>> Sreenivasan: IN A DISTRICT ON
THE MEXICAN BORDER WHERE MOST
ON THE MEXICAN BORDER WHERE
MOST ADULTS HAVE NO COLLEGE
ADULTS HAVE NO COLLEGE
EDUCATION, DANIEL KING IS INTENT
ON ENSURING THEIR CHILDREN GET
ONE, BEFORE THEY EVEN LEAVE HIGH
ONE, BEFORE THEY EVEN
LEAVE HIGH SCHOOL.
SCHOOL. >> WHAT ARE
YOU GOING TO STUDY?
>> WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO STUDY?
>> IN THE MEDICAL FIELD.
>> IN THE MEDICAL
FIELD. >> ANY NO.
>> ANY NO. >>
Sreenivasan: SEVEN YEAR
>> Sreenivasan: SEVEN YEAR
KIN'S DISTRICT PARTNERED WITH
SOUTH TEXAS COLLEGE TO OFFER
CLASSES FOR FREE TO ALL 8,000
PLUS HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS.
>> COLLEGE BECOMES SOMETHING
CONCRETE FOR THEM.
CONCRETE FOR THEM. ARE
YOU GOING TO HAVE AN
ARE YOU GOING TO HAVE
AN ASSOCIATE DEGREE?
ASSOCIATE DEGREE? STAY STILL
HAVE THE POTENTIAL TO
STAY STILL HAVE THE POTENTIAL
TO LEAVE HERE FOR TWO YEARS OF
LEAVE HERE FOR TWO YEARS OF
COLLEGE UNDER THEIR BELT.
THAT'S A BIG ECONOMIC SAVINGS.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS MAY
NEARLY 500 SENIORS GRADUATED
WITH A TWO-YEAR COLLEGE DEGREE
WITH A TWO-YEAR COLLEGE
DEGREE OR CERTIFICATE.
OR CERTIFICATE. >> ARE
YOU GOING TO START THIS
>> ARE YOU GOING TO
START THIS SUMMER?
SUMMER? >> Sreenivasan:
AND NEARLY
>> Sreenivasan: AND NEARLY 3,000
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS WERE
3,000 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS WERE
ENROLLED IN COLLEGE COURSES.
ENROLLED IN COLLEGE COURSES. >>
BY 2018, OUR GOAL IS TO HAVE
>> BY 2018, OUR GOAL IS TO
HAVE 50% HAVE COMPLETED AN
50% HAVE COMPLETED AN
ASSOCIATE'S DEGREE OR
CERTIFICATE BY THE TIME THEY
GRADUATE FROM HIGH SCHOOL.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CULTURAL
SHIFT IN THIS BORDER REGION HAS
BEEN SO SHIFT IT'S CHANGING
EXPECTATIONS WITHIN FAMILIES.
>> THAT IS PSYCHOLOGY.
>> THAT IS PSYCHOLOGY. >>
Sreenivasan: THIS GIRL
>> Sreenivasan: THIS GIRL HEARD
ABOUT EARLY COLLEGE WHILE
HEARD ABOUT EARLY COLLEGE
WHILE STILL IN MIDDLE SCHOOL.
STILL IN MIDDLE SCHOOL. >> I
SAID IF IT'S BEING OFFERED,
>> I SAID IF IT'S BEING
OFFERED, IT WAS THE TREND.
IT WAS THE TREND. YOU
KNOW, COLLEGE FOR FREE?
YOU KNOW, COLLEGE FOR FREE?
LET'S DO>> Sreenivasan: IN MAY E
LET'S DO>> Sreenivasan: IN MAY
E GRADUATED FIFTH IN HER HIGH
GRADUATED FIFTH IN HER HIGH
SCHOOL CLASS WITH 60 COLLEGE
CREDIT HOURS AND A TWO-YEAR
ASSOCIATE'S DEGREE.
ASSOCIATE'S DEGREE. IT WAS
A DIFFERENT STORY FOR
IT WAS A DIFFERENT STORY FOR
STEPHANIE'S OLDER SISTER,
24-YEAR-OLD ALEX WHO ATTENDED
HIGH SCHOOL JUST A FEW YEARS
HIGH SCHOOL JUST A
FEW YEARS EARLIER.
EARLIER. >> WHEN I
WAS, THERE THEY DIDN'T
>> WHEN I WAS, THERE THEY
DIDN'T HAVE EARLY COLLEGE.
HAVE EARLY COLLEGE. SO ONCE
THEY OFFERED IT TO HER,
SO ONCE THEY OFFERED IT TO HER,
WE WERE ALL SAYING TO GO FOR IT
WE WERE ALL SAYING TO GO FOR
IT BECAUSE I DIDN'T HAVE THAT
BECAUSE I DIDN'T
HAVE THAT CHANCE.
CHANCE. >> Sreenivasan:
THEIR MOTHER
>> Sreenivasan: THEIR MOTHER
RAISED STEPNIEHA AND HER
SIBLINGS AFTER THEIR FATHER, WHO
WORKED FOR THE BORDER PATROL,
WAS KILLED BY GUNFIRE IN MEXICO
WAS KILLED BY GUNFIRE IN
MEXICO WHILE OFF DUTY.
WHILE OFF DUTY. ALEX TOOK
ON A JOB AT THE DOLLAR
ALEX TOOK ON A JOB AT THE
DOLLAR STORE AFTER HIGH SCHOOL.
STORE AFTER HIGH SCHOOL. A
PLACE WHERE SHE AND HER MOTHER
A PLACE WHERE SHE AND
HER MOTHER STLLI WORK.
STLLI WORK. >> I
FELL LIKE IT WAS MY
>> I FELL LIKE IT WAS
MY RESPONSIBILITY.
RESPONSIBILITY. I HAD
MY TWO LITTLE ONE, MY
I HAD MY TWO LITTLE ONE, MY
BROTHER AND MY SISTER, AND I HAD
TO WORK TO HELP MY MOM OUT, TOO.
>> Sreenivasan: SHE ENROLLED
IN COMMUNITY COLLEGE BUT SOON
DROPPED OUT WHEN SHE FOUND WORK
AND SCHOOL TOO MUCH TO JUGGLE.
>> IT'S NOT EASY TO PAY YOUR
BILLS AND HAVING TO GO TO
BILLS AND HAVING
TO GO TO SCHOOL.
SCHOOL. >> Sreenivasan:
THE FAMILY IS
>> Sreenivasan: THE FAMILY IS
FOCUSED ON STEPHANIE'S FUTURE.
>> SHE'S GOING TO GO.
>> SHE'S GOING TO
GO. WE'RE EXCITED.
WE'RE EXCITED. >> IT'S
EVERYBODY'S DREAM.
>> IT'S EVERYBODY'S DREAM. >>
I HAVE TO DO IT FOR MY LITTLE
>> I HAVE TO DO IT FOR
MY LITTLE BROTHER.
BROTHER. I HAVE TO
GO ON THE COLLEGE.
I HAVE TO GO ON THE COLLEGE. >>
TELL ME HOW YOU CREATED THAT
>> TELL ME HOW YOU
CREATED THAT CIRCUIT.
CIRCUIT. >>
Sreenivasan: BUT HOW DO
>> Sreenivasan: BUT HOW DO
STUDENTS HANDLE THE EXTRA WORK?
IS HIGH SCHOOL MADE EASIER?
ARE COLLEGE COURSES WATERED
ARE COLLEGE COURSES
WATERED DOWN?
DOWN? JOEL VARGAS,
WHO WORKS WITH
JOEL VARGAS, WHO WORKS WITH
EARLY COLLEGE PROGRAMS ACROSS
THE COUNTRY SAYS THE OPPOSITE
THE COUNTRY SAYS THE
OPPOSITE OFTEN HAPPENS.
OFTEN HAPPENS. >> I'LL
GIVE YOU ABOUT TWO MORE
>> I'LL GIVE YOU ABOUT
TWO MORE MINUTES, GUYS.
MINUTES, GUYS. IT ENCOURAGES
THESE YOUNG PEOPLE
IT ENCOURAGES THESE YOUNG
PEOPLE TO STEP UP THEIR GAME.
TO STEP UP THEIR GAME. AND I
THINK TOO MANY OF OUR HIGH
AND I THINK TOO MANY OF OUR HIGH
SCHOOLS ARE SORT OF STRUCTURED
WITH MINIMAL EXPECTATIONS, AND
YOU REAP WHAT YOU SEW IN THAT
YOU REAP WHAT YOU
SEW IN THAT REGARD.
REGARD. WHEN YOU SET THE BARLOW.
WHEN YOU SET THE BARLOW. >>
THE PLUSES ARE DEFINITELY
>> THE PLUSES ARE DEFINITELY
MORE RIGOROUS THAN THE HIGH
MORE RIGOROUS THAN THE
HIGH SCHOOL CLASSES.
SCHOOL CLASSES. >> THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
>> THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE --
THE -- >> YOU HAVE
TO LEARN ABOUT
>> YOU HAVE TO LEARN
ABOUT DISCIPLINE.
DISCIPLINE. YOU HAVE
TO LEARN TO STUDY.
YOU HAVE TO LEARN TO STUDY. YOU
KNOW, AND IT'S JUST A MATTER
YOU KNOW, AND IT'S JUST A MATTER
OF KNOWING WHAT YOU'RE GETTING
OF KNOWING WHAT
YOU'RE GETTING INTO.
INTO. >> THE HYPOTHESIS...
>> THE HYPOTHESIS... >>
Sreenivasan: SAMUEL FREEMAN
>> Sreenivasan: SAMUEL FREEMAN
AT TEXAS PAN AMERICAN HAS TAUGHT
AND ADVISED MANY EARLY COLLEGE
LEARNERS FROM THE DISTRICT.
LEARNERS FROM THE DISTRICT. >>
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THEM ARE
>> THE VAST MAJORITY OF THEM
ARE NOT READY EMOTIONALLY OR
NOT READY EMOTIONALLY
OR INTELLECTUALLY.
INTELLECTUALLY. >>
Sreenivasan: HE SAYS
>> Sreenivasan: HE SAYS
HIGH-ACHIEVING STUDENTS MAY DO
WELL, BUT MANY EARLY COLLEGE
STUDENTS ARRIVE ON CAMPUS
WITHOUT THE EMOTIONAL MATURITY
TO HANDLE HIGH-LEVEL COURSE
TO HANDLE HIGH-LEVEL
COURSE WORK.
WORK. >> WHAT HAPPENS
TO MANY OF THESE
>> WHAT HAPPENS TO MANY OF THESE
EARLY COLLEGE STUDENTS WHEN THEY
GET HERE AND THEY WALK IN THE
FIRST DAY OF CLASS AND THEY'RE
IN JUNIOR AND SENIOR LEVEL
CRITICAL AND AN LETTIC THINKING
SKILLS, THEY DO NOT HAVE THE
SKILLS, THEY DO NOT HAVE
THE READING SKILLS.
READING SKILLS. THEY
CAN'T HANDLE THE READING
THEY CAN'T HANDLE
THE READING LOAD.
LOAD. THEY DON'T
HAVE THE WRITING
THEY DON'T HAVE THE
WRITING SKILLS.
SKILLS. THEY CANNOT WRITE.
THEY CANNOT WRITE. I'LL
ONLY HAVE ONE RESISTOR.
I'LL ONLY HAVE ONE RESISTOR.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS PHYSICS
TEACHER HAS A DIFFERENT VIEW.
TEACHER HAS A DIFFERENT VIEW. HE
THINKS EARLY COLLEGE PREPARES
HE THINKS EARLY COLLEGE PREPARES
STUDENTS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION.
>> A LOT OF THE STUDENTS THAT
GRADUATE FROM HIGH SCHOOL, IF
THEY DON'T GO THROUGH THE RIG
ROAR OF THESE CLASSES WHEN
THEY'RE IN HIGH SCHOOL, WHAT
THEY'RE IN HIGH SCHOOL,
WHAT HAPPENS TO THEM?
HAPPENS TO THEM? IT'S A
RUDE AWAKENING ONCE THEY
IT'S A RUDE AWAKENING ONCE THEY
GET TO CLEGEOL AND A LOT OF
THEM, THEY DON'T END UP MAKING
THEM, THEY DON'T
END UP MAKING IT.
IT. >> Sreenivasan: HOW CAN
>> Sreenivasan: HOW CAN
DISTRICTS AFFORD THIS IDEA?
DISTRICTS AFFORD THIS IDEA? HOW
CAN YOU HAVE COLLEGE CLASSES
HOW CAN YOU HAVE COLLEGE CLASSES
INSIDE HIGH SCHOOL CLASSROOMS
INSIDE HIGH SCHOOL
CLASSROOMS FOR FREE?
FOR FREE? >> THE STATE
OF TEXAS HAS GOOD
>> THE STATE OF TEXAS HAS
GOOD POLICIES IN THIS REGARD.
POLICIES IN THIS REGARD. THE
STATE WILL PAY BOTH COLLEGES
THE STATE WILL PAY BOTH COLLEGES
AND HIGH SCHOOLS IN A WAY THEY
AND HIGH SCHOOLS IN A
WAY THEY GET A TWO-FOR.
GET A TWO-FOR. >> HOW
MANY COLLEGE HOURS ARE
>> HOW MANY COLLEGE HOURS ARE
YOU GOING TO HAVE BY THE END OF
YOU GOING TO HAVE BY
THE END OF THIS SMES?
THIS SMES? >>
Sreenivasan: THE WAY
>> Sreenivasan: THE WAY
SUPERINTENDENT KING SEES IT,
K-12 EDUCATION IN AMERICA SHOULD
K-12 EDUCATION IN AMERICA
SHOULD BE RESTRUCTURED.
BE RESTRUCTURED. >> WE'RE
BRIDGING HIGH SCHOOL
>> WE'RE BRIDGING HIGH
SCHOOL AND COLLEGE.
AND COLLEGE. WE HAVE
THIS DRASTICRANS TITION
WE HAVE THIS DRASTICRANS TITION
FROM A SYSTEM WHERE STUDENTS GET
HANDED RIGHT OFF SMOOTHLY TO
MIDDLE SCHOOL AND THEN ON TO
MIDDLE SCHOOL AND THEN
ON TO HIGH SCHOOL.
HIGH SCHOOL. COLLEGE,
IT'S SINK OR SWIM.
COLLEGE, IT'S SINK OR SWIM.
>> Sreivasenan: OSCAR,
STEPHANIE'S ECONOMICS PROFESSOR
FROM SOUTH TEXAS COLLEGE,
AGREES. >> MOST OF
THESE STUDENTS ARE
>> MOST OF THESE STUDENTS ARE
FIRST STUDENTS IN COLLEGE.
SO FOR THEM TO SEE THAT PATH
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING AND MAKE
THAT PATH VISIBLE, I THINK IT'S
THAT PATH VISIBLE, I THINK
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT.
VERY IMPORTANT. AND
THAT IS A BIG CHANGE.
AND THAT IS A BIG CHANGE. >>
Sreenivasan: STEPHANIE SAYS
>> Sreenivasan: STEPHANIE SAYS
SHE'S READY FOR THE CHALLENGE.
SHE'LL BE ATTENDING THE
PRESTIGIOUS UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
AT AUSTIN THIS FALL AND HOPES
ONE DAY TO BE A LAWYER.
ONE DAY TO BE A LAWYER. >> I
SEE IT AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
>> I SEE IT AS AN OPPORTUNITY
TO DO MORE FOR MY FAMILY.
DO MORE FOR MY FAMILY. AFTER
COLLEGE I PLAN TO GRADUATE
AFTER COLLEGE I PLAN TO
GRADUATE AND COME BACK.
AND COME BACK. MY
FAMILY IS MY NUMBER-ONE
MY FAMILY IS MY
NUMBER-ONE PRIORITY.
PRIORITY. I WANT TO
GIVE THEM A BETTER
I WANT TO GIVE THEM
A BETTER LIFE.
LIFE. I MEAN, OBVIOUSLY
MY MOM, THEY
I MEAN, OBVIOUSLY MY MOM, THEY
PROVED OVER HERE FROM MEXICO TO
PROVED OVER HERE FROM MEXICO
TO GIVE US A BETTER LIFE.
GIVE US A BETTER LIFE.
I WANT TO DO THE SAME.
I WANT TO DO THE SAME. I
MEAN, EVERYTHING I DO IS
I MEAN, EVERYTHING I DO
IS DEFINITELY FOR HER.
DEFINITELY FOR HER. >>
Sreenivasan: SO FAR MORE
>> Sreenivasan: SO FAR MORE THAN
95% OF THE STUDENTS WHOADUM
THAN 95% OF THE STUDENTS WHOADUM
SCHOOL WITH AN ASSOCIATES DEGREE
HAVE GONE ON TO PURSUE THEIR
HAVE GONE ON TO PURSUE
THEIR BACHELORS.
BACHELORS. FOR THE PBS
NEWS HOUR, I'M HARI
FOR THE PBS NEWS HOUR,
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
SREENIVASAN. >> Woodruff:
WE HAVE MORE IN OUR
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE MORE IN
OUR SERIES ONLINE: MORE THAN
SERIES ONLINE: MORE THAN $31
BILLION IN FEDERAL PELL
$31 BILLION IN FEDERAL PELL
GRANTS GO TO LOW-INCOME COLLEGE
STUDENTS, BUT HOW DO THOSE
STUDENTS, BUT HOW DO
THOSE STUDENTS FARE?
STUDENTS FARE? OUR
PARTNERS AT THE HECHINGER
OUR PARTNERS AT THE HECHINGER
REPORT INVESTIGATED WHETHER
GRANTEES ARE MAKING IT TO
GRADUATION AT 80 OF THE
COUNTRY'S LARGEST UNIVERSITIES.
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: PEOPLE FACING LIFE-
THREATENING ILLNESSES OFTEN TURN
TO PALLIATIVE CARE, NOT ONLY TO
HELP EASE THE PAIN, BUT ALSO TO
NAVIGATE END-OF-LIFE CHOICES.
IT'S NEVER AN EASY PROCESS, BUT
IT'S EVEN HARDER FOR THOSE
LIVING IN REMOTE, RURAL AREAS.
LIVING IN REMOTE, RURAL
AREAS. ONE DOCTOR IN NORTHERN
ONE DOCTOR IN NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA IS FINDING INNOVATIVE
WAYS TO HELP EASE THE BURDEN.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JOANNE
JENNINGS REPORTS FROM HUMBOLDT
JENNINGS REPORTS FROM
HUMBOLDT COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
IT'S THE LATEST IN OUR
"BREAKTHROUGHS" SERIES ON
INVENTION AND INNOVATION.
INVENTION AND INNOVATION. >>
Reporter: DR MICHAEL FRATKIN,
>> Reporter: DR MICHAEL FRATKIN,
AN INTERNIST SPECIALIZING IN
PALLIATIVE MEDICINE, IS MAKING
PALLIATIVE MEDICINE, IS MAKING A
HOUSE CALL TO A TERMINALLY ILL
A HOUSE CALL TO A
TERMINALLY ILL PATIENT.
PATIENT. >> THIS IS
WHERE I'D LIKE TO DIE
>> THIS IS WHERE I'D LIKE TO DIE
WHEN I DIE IN MY OWN BED, IN MY
WHEN I DIE IN MY OWN
BED, IN MY OWN HOME.
OWN HOME. >> Reporter:
AT 73 YEARS OLD,
>> Reporter: AT 73 YEARS OLD,
KRISTI IS CONFRONTING HER
KRISTI IS CONFRONTING
HER MORTALITY.
MORTALITY. SIX MONTHS
AGO, THE RETIRED
SIX MONTHS AGO, THE RETIRED
SCHOOL GUIDANCE COUNSELOR WAS
DIAGNOSED WITH AN AGGRESSIVE
FORM OF PANCREATIC CANCER.
HER ONCOLOGIST RECOMMENDED
SURGERY AND CHEMOTHERAPY, BUT
CHOSE TO FORGO TREATMENT.
>> MY HUSBAND WAS IN THE
HOSPITAL FOR A LONG TIME BEFORE
HE DIED AND IT WAS PAINFUL.
HE DIED AND IT WAS PAINFUL. I
DON'T WANT TO LIVE THE REST OF
I DON'T WANT TO LIVE THE
REST OF MY LIFE LIKE THAT.
MY LIFE LIKE THAT. IF
I HAVE THREE MONTHS,
IF I HAVE THREE MONTHS,
SIX MONTHS, I DON'T CARE.
SIX MONTHS, I DON'T CARE. I
WANT QUALITY OF LIFE WITH MY
I WANT QUALITY OF
LIFE WITH MY FAMILY.
FAMILY. >> Reporter:
NOW HOME, GOECHEL
>> Reporter: NOW HOME, GOECHEL
IS SAVORING EVERY MOMENT.
>> WHERE'S THE PAIN?
>> Reporter: LIKE MOST
PALLIATIVE CARE DOORS,CT FRATKIN
PALLIATIVE CARE DOORS,CT
FRATKIN DOES MANAGE PAIN.
DOES MANAGE PAIN. BUT HE
ALSO TRIES TO GET HIS
BUT HE ALSO TRIES TO GET HIS
PATIENTS TO FOCUS BEYOND THE
PATIENTS TO FOCUS
BEYOND THE PHYSICAL.
PHYSICAL. >> HOW ARE
YOU FEELING INSIDE
>> HOW ARE YOU FEELING
INSIDE YOURSELF?
YOURSELF? >> I'M FEELING BETTER.
>> I'M FEELING BETTER. I
WAS FEELING PRETTY CRAZY
I WAS FEELING PRETTY CRAZY
INSIDE MYSELF FOR A WHILE.
INSIDE MYSELF FOR A WHILE. I'M
TRYING TO WORK THAT OUT NOW,
I'M TRYING TO WORK THAT
OUT NOW, EMOTIONALLY.
EMOTIONALLY. >> Reporter:
TO OFFER THIS KIND
>> Reporter: TO OFFER THIS KIND
OF PERSONAL CARE REQUIRES TIME.
BUT WITH MOST OF HIS PATIENTS
LIVING OFF THE BEATEN PATH, FAR
FROM FRATKIN'S OFFICE IN EUREKA,
THAT'S ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE.
WITH THE HELP OF PILOT MARK
HARRIS AND HIS 1957 CESSNA,
FRATKIN SHOWS US THE DISTANCE HE
FRATKIN SHOWS US THE
DISTANCE HE COVERS.
COVERS. >> JUST
OUR SERVICE AREA,
>> JUST OUR SERVICE AREA,
EXTENDS 100 MILES NORTH AND
SOUTH AND PROBABLY 60 TO 80
MILES FROM THE BEACH EASTWARD.
THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT LIVE IN
THE NOOKS AND CRANNIES OF OUR
THE NOOKS AND CRANNIES OF
OUR ENVIRONMENT BY CHOICE.
ENVIRONMENT BY CHOICE. THAT'S
WHERE THEY'VE LIVED THEIR
THAT'S WHERE THEY'VE LIVED THEIR
LIFE AND THAT'S WHERE THEY WANT
LIFE AND THAT'S WHERE THEY
WANT TO COMPLETE THEIR LIFE.
TO COMPLETE THEIR LIFE. A
LITTLE BIT MORE THAN A YEAR
A LITTLE BIT MORE THAN A
YEAR AGO, I WAS BURNED OUT.
AGO, I WAS BURNED OUT. I
HAD NO TEAM AND NO WAY OF
I HAD NO TEAM AND NO WAY OF
THINKING HOW WAS I POSSIBLY
GOING TO MEET THE DEMAND THAT
THIS COMMUNITY HAS FOR THIS KIND
THIS COMMUNITY HAS FOR THIS
KIND OF SUPPORTIVE CARE.
OF SUPPORTIVE CARE. >>
Reporter: SO HE CAME UP WITH
>> Reporter: SO HE CAME UP WITH
A SOLUTION: VIDEOCONFERENCING.
>> BY ADDING THE VIDEO
CONFERENCING TECHNOLOGY, WE CAN
CONFERENCING TECHNOLOGY, WE
CAN TRAVEL THAT DISTANCE
TRAVEL THAT DISTANCE
INSTANTANEOUSLY.
INSTANTANEOUSLY. >> AS
LONG AS OUR RELATIONSHIPS
>> AS LONG AS OUR RELATIONSHIPS
ARE SOLID AND THAT WE'VE
DELIVERED AN ENVIRONMENT OF
TRUST IN WORKING WITH THESE
FOLKS, IT WORKS BEAUTIFULLY WELL
>> Reporter: FOR 44-YE-OLDAR
RICH SCHLESIGER, THIS TYPE OF
COMMUNICATION MAKES ALL THE
COMMUNICATION MAKES
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
DIFFERENCE. THE FORMER
SHERIFF'S DEPUTY HAD
THE FORMER SHERIFF'S DEPUTY HAD
BEEN MAKING A 10-HOUR ROUND-TRIP
DRIVE TO SAN FRANCISCO FOR BRAIN
DRIVE TO SAN FRANCISCO FOR
BRAIN CANCER TREATMENTS.
CANCER TREATMENTS. AFTER
TRYING EVERYTHING, HIS
AFTER TRYING EVERYTHING, HIS
TUMOR CONTINUED TO GROW, SO HE
MADE A TOUGH DECISION: STOP
CHEMOTHERAPY, AND LIVE OUT HIS
FINAL DAYS AT HOME IN FORTUNA.
FROM HIS LIVING ROOM COUCH, WITH
HIS WIFE MORGAN AND MOTHER PAM
HIS WIFE MORGAN AND MOTHER
PAM BY HIS SIDE, SCHLESIGER
BY HIS SIDE, SCHLESIGER
DISCUSSES HIS DRUG REGIMEN WITH
DISCUSSES HIS DRUG REGIMEN
WITH HIS NEUROONCOLOGIST, DR.
HIS NEUROONCOLOGIST,
DR. JENNIFER CLARKE.
JENNIFER CLARKE. SHE'S IN
SAN FRANCISCO, AND DR.
SHE'S IN SAN FRANCISCO, AND
DR. FRATKIN IS IN EUREKA.
FRATKIN IS IN EUREKA. >> DID
YOU FEEL LIKE IT MADE ANY
>> DID YOU FEEL LIKE IT MADE ANY
DIFFERENCE FROM THE STANDPOINT
OF HEADACHES OR FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF YOUR RIGHT SIDE?
STANDPOINT OF YOUR RIGHT
SIDE? >> I DON'T THINK SO.
>> I DON'T THINK SO. >>
Reporter: AFTER SHARING A FEW
>> Reporter: AFTER SHARING A FEW
LAUGHS, THEY QUICKLY MOVE INTO
LAUGHS, THEY QUICKLY MOVE
INTO AN INTENSE CONVERSATION.
AN INTENSE CONVERSATION.
>> HOW IS THE REST OF YOUR
FAMILY AROUND YOU DOING, RICH?
>> IT'S ROUGH BECAUSE I DON'T
KNOW WHERE TO GO, YOU KNOW?
I FEEL GOOD, THEN I'M GOING
I FEEL GOOD, THEN
I'M GOING DOWN.
DOWN. YOU KNOW AND THEM I'M LIKE
YOU KNOW AND THEM I'M LIKE
GODDAMN IT, SOMETHING'S WRONG.
YOU KNOW HOW I AM, YOU BOTH KNOW
HOW I AM. I JUST WANT TO DO IT
HOW I AM. I JUST WANT TO
DO IT AND THAT'S HOW I AM.
AND THAT'S HOW I AM. >> IF
I WAS A BETTING MAN, I'D
>> IF I WAS A BETTING MAN, I'D
SAY THIS WOULD BE IN SOME WAYS
THE HARDEST PART OF THINGS.
IT'S NOT ABOUT DOING.
IT'S ABOUT BEING.
IT'S ABOUT BEING. >> IT'S
GOOD THAT HE'S SHOWING
>> IT'S GOOD THAT HE'S
SHOWING THOSE EMOTIONS.
THOSE EMOTIONS. IT'S GOOD
THAT HE HAS ALL THAT.
IT'S GOOD THAT HE HAS ALL THAT.
IT'S JUST A PART OF RICH THAT WE
IT'S JUST A PART OF
RICH THAT WE LOVE.
LOVE. >> Reporter:
PAM SCHLESIGER SAYS
>> Reporter: PAM SCHLESIGER SAYS
THAT VIDEO CONFERENCING HAS MADE
THIS VERY DIFFICULT PROCESS MORE
THIS VERY DIFFICULT
PROCESS MORE BEARABLE.
BEARABLE. >> HE
GETS TO TALK TO DR.
>> HE GETS TO TALK TO DR.
CLARKE AND DR. FRATKIN TOO, AND
CLARKE AND DR. FRATKIN TOO,
AND HERE WE ARE IN OUR HOUSE.
HERE WE ARE IN OUR HOUSE. WHO
WOULD EVEN THINK OF THAT?
WHO WOULD EVEN THINK OF THAT?
>> Reporter: DR. CLARKE, WHO
>> Reporter: DR. CLARKE, WHO 'TS
'TS BEFORE MEETING
THE SCHLESIGERS,
BEFORE MEETING THE
SCHLESIGERS, IS IMPRESSED.
IS IMPRESSED. >> THIS
WAS MY FIRST EXPERIENCE
>> THIS WAS MY FIRST
EXPERIENCE WITH TELEMEDICINE.
WITH TELEMEDICINE. I FOUND
IT, IN FACT, MUCH MORE
I FOUND IT, IN FACT, MUCH
MORE POWERFUL THAN I WAS
POWERFUL THAN I
WAS ANTICIPATING.
ANTICIPATING. I THINK
THIS COULD BE A REALLY
I THINK THIS COULD BE A REALLY
POWERFUL TOOL TO ALLOW US TO
TAKE BETTER CARE OF PATIENTS,
PARTICULARLY WHEN THEY'RE
BECOMING LESS MOBILE TOWARD THE
BECOMING LESS MOBILE
TOWARD THE END OF LIFE.
END OF LIFE. >> Reporter:
BUT DESPITE THE
>> Reporter: BUT DESPITE THE
PROMISE, DR. CLARKE DOES NOT YET
HAVE A MECHANISM TO BILL FOR
HAVE A MECHANISM TO BILL
FOR VIDEO CONSULTATIONS.
VIDEO CONSULTATIONS. FOR
DR. FRATKIN'S OLDER
FOR DR. FRATKIN'S OLDER
PATIENTS, MEDICARE OFTEN PAYS
AFTER AN INITIAL FACE-TO-FACE
AFTER AN INITIAL
FACE-TO-FACE VISIT.
VISIT. AND, THROUGH
A NEW PILOT PROGRAM
AND, THROUGH A NEW PILOT PROGRAM
FOR MEDICAID PATIENTS, HE'S
FOR MEDICAID PATIENTS,
HE'S TRYING TO REPLACE THE
TRYING TO REPLACE THE
TRADITIONAL FEE FOR SERVICE
SYSTEM WITH A SO-CALLED VALUE-
SYSTEM WITH A SO-CALLED
VALUE- BASED PAYMENT MODEL.
BASED PAYMENT MODEL.
HERE'S HOW IT WORKS:
HERE'S HOW IT WORKS: >> FOR
ELIGIBLE PARTICIPANTS,
>> FOR ELIGIBLE PARTICIPANTS,
WE'LL BE PROVIDED A PER MEMBER,
PER MONTH AMOUNT OF MONEY.
WITH THIS VALUE-BASED PAYMENT
MODEL, IT DOESN'T MATTER WHETHER
WE SEE THE PERSON ONCE A MONTH
WE SEE THE PERSON ONCE A
MONTH OR TWICE A DAY.
OR TWICE A DAY. IT DOESN'T
MATTER IF WE SEND A
IT DOESN'T MATTER IF WE SEND
A SOCIAL WORKER OR COMMUNITY
SOCIAL WORKER OR
COMMUNITY HEALTH WORKER.
HEALTH WORKER. IT DOESN'T
MATTER IF WE USE A
IT DOESN'T MATTER IF WE USE A
TELEPHONE OR WE USE A VIDEO
CONFERENCING TECHNOLOGY.
CONFERENCING TECHNOLOGY. WHAT
MATTERS IS THAT WE DELIVER
WHAT MATTERS IS THAT WE DELIVER
VALUE THAT MAKES SENSE TO THAT
VALUE THAT MAKES SENSE
TO THAT PERSON.
PERSON. >> Reporter:
MEANWHILE, DR.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, DR.
FRATKIN IS HELPING HIS PATIENTS
GET USED TO THE WHOLE CONCEPT OF
GET USED TO THE WHOLE CONCEPT
OF PALLIATIVE CARE VIA VIDEO
PALLIATIVE CARE VIA
VIDEO CONFERENCE.
CONFERENCE. >> THEN,
WHAT WE'LL DO IS, WE'LL
>> THEN, WHAT WE'LL DO IS, WE'LL
CONNECT BY VIDEO CONFERENCE.
CONNECT BY VIDEO
CONFERENCE. >> ALRIGHT.
>> ALRIGHT. >> Reporter:
KRISTI GOECHEL SAYS
>> Reporter: KRISTI GOECHEL SAYS
SHE PREFERS IN-PERSON VISITS,
BUT SHE'LL GIVE VIDEO A TRY.
BUT SHE'LL GIVE VIDEO A TRY. FOR
THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M JOANNE
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M JOANNE
JENNINGS IN REDWAY, CALIFORNIA.
>> Woodruff: TECHNOLOGY IS ALSO
GIVING THE HOMEBOU A CNDHANCE TO
CLIMB THE EIFFEL TOWER OR HIKE A
VOLCANO, AT LEAST TO FEEL AS IF
VOLCANO, AT LEAST TO
FEEL AS IF THEY ARE.
THEY ARE. A NONPROFIT
PHOTOGRAPHY
A NONPROFIT PHOTOGRAPHY
ORGANIZATION GIVES "VIRTUAL
PHOTO TOURS," AND YOU CAN JOIN
PHOTO TOURS," AND YOU
CAN JOIN ONE TOMORROW.
ONE TOMORROW. THE
DETAILS ARE ON OUR HOME
THE DETAILS ARE
ON OUR HOME PAGE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, ANOTHER
ADDITION TO OUR NEWSHOUR
ADDITION TO OUR
NEWSHOUR BOOKSHELF.
BOOKSHELF. WE LOOK AT
A NEW TAKE ON A LONG-
WE LOOK AT A NEW TAKE ON A
LONG- ADMIRED AMERICAN POEM.
ADMIRED AMERICAN POEM. ARTS
CORRESPONDENT JEFFREY BROWN
ARTS CORRESPONDENT
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT.
HAS THAT. >> Brown:
"TWO ROADS DIE
>> Brown: "TWO ROADS DIE
VERNALLED IN A WOOD.
VERNALLED IN A WOOD. SORRY
I COULD NOT TRAVEL BOTH
SORRY I COULD NOT TRAVEL BOTH
AND ONE TRAVELER LONG I STOOD."
THE FIRST LINES OF ONE OF THE
BEST-KNOWN POEMS BY ONE OF THE
NATION'S BEST-LOVED POETS,
NATION'S BEST-LOVED
POETS, ROBERT FROST.
ROBERT FROST. IT'S
CALLED "THE ROAD NOT
IT'S CALLED "THE
ROAD NOT TAKEN."
TAKEN." THAT'S THE
TITLE OF THE NEW BOOK
THAT'S THE TITLE OF THE NEW BOOK
THAT CALLS IT THE POET EVERYONE
LOVES AND ALMOST EVERYONE GETS
LOVES AND ALMOST
EVERYONE GETS WRONG.
WRONG. WELCOME.
WELCOME. AS YOU SAY,
THIS IS ONE OF THOSE
AS YOU SAY, THIS IS ONE OF THOSE
RARE POEMS THAT GETS INTO
MAINSTREAM CULTURE, EVEN
MAINSTREAM CULTURE,
EVEN COMMERCIALS.
COMMERCIALS. WHY?
WHY? WHAT HAS DONE THAT?
WHAT HAS DONE THAT? >> I
BEGIN THE BOOK BY TALKING
>> I BEGIN THE BOOK BY TALKING
ABOUT A COMMERCIAL IN NEW
ZEALAND, AND IT'S A COMMERCIAL
ZEALAND, AND IT'S A
COMMERCIAL FOR FORD CARS.
FOR FORD CARS. AND
THE NARRATION OF THE
AND THE NARRATION OF THE
COMMERCIAL IS NOTHING BUT
SOMEONE READING "THE ROAD NOT
SOMEONE READING "THE
ROAD NOT TAKEN."
TAKEN." THEY DON'T
ATTRIBUTE IT TO
THEY DON'T ATTRIBUTE
IT TO FROST.
FROST. THEY DON'T
EVEN TELL YOU WHAT IT
THEY DON'T EVEN TELL
YOU WHAT IT IS.
IS. THEY JUST READ THE POEM.
THEY JUST READ THE POEM. THE
FACT THAT YOU COULD RECITE A
THE FACT THAT YOU COULD RECITE A
POEM WRITTEN BY AN AMERICAN IN
POEM WRITTEN BY AN AMERICAN
IN NEW ZEALAND TODAY, A
NEW ZEALAND TODAY, A
100-YEAR-OLD POEM, IS PRETTY
100-YEAR-OLD POEM,
IS PRETTY AMAZING.
AMAZING. AND THEY'RE EXPECTED TO
AND THEY'RE EXPECTED TO
RECOGNIZE IT, KNOW WHAT IT IS,
HAVE ASSOCIATIONS WITH IT.
HAVE ASSOCIATIONS WITH IT. IT'S
AN INCREDIBLY POPULAR PIECE
IT'S AN INCREDIBLY POPULAR
PIECE OF WRITING.
OF WRITING. >> Brown:
THAT'S FROM THE FAY
>> Brown: THAT'S FROM THE FAY
LOUSE LINES IN THE LAST STANZA,
"I TOOK THE ONE LESS TRAVELED
BY, AND THAT HAS MADE ALL THE
BY, AND THAT HAS MADE
ALL THE DIFFERENCE."
DIFFERENCE." IT'S READ
AS A KIND OF PAY ON
IT'S READ AS A KIND OF PAY
ON THE INDIVIDUALISM.
THE INDIVIDUALISM. >>
ABSOLUTELY, ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY, ABSOLUTELY.
THAT'S WHY YOU SEE IT IN SO MANY
THAT'S WHY YOU SEE IT IN SO
MANY GRADUATION SPEECHES.
GRADUATION SPEECHES.
THAT'S WHY YOU SEE IT IN
THAT'S WHY YOU SEE
IT IN COMMERCIALS.
COMMERCIALS. THERE ARE
NO COMPANIES IN THE
THERE ARE NO COMPANIES IN THE
WORLD THAT WOULD PUT THE POEM UP
AS PART OF THEIR COMMERCIAL IF
THEY KNEW WHAT THE POEM IS MORE
THEY KNEW WHAT THE POEM
IS MORE LIKELY TO MEAN.
LIKELY TO MEAN. >>
Brown: WHICH IS WHAT?
>> Brown: WHICH IS WHAT? >>
IF YOU LOOK AT THE END OF THE
>> IF YOU LOOK AT THE END OF THE
POEM, THE SPEAKER IS CLAIMING
HE'S GOING TO BE SAYING
SOMETHING ABOUT THE FUTURE.
HE'S SAYING, I SHALL BE SAYING
THIS WITH A SIGH SOME AGES AND
AGES HENCE, BUT IT'S EASY TO
FORGET WHAT HAPPENS IN THE
FORGET WHAT HAPPENS IN
THE MIDDLE OF THE POEM.
MIDDLE OF THE POEM. IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE POEM IT
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE POEM IT
BECOMES TOO CLEAR THAT THE TWO
ROADS ARE ACTUALLY THE SAME OR
ROADS ARE ACTUALLY THE SAME
OR AT LEAST INTERCHANGEABLE.
AT LEAST INTERCHANGEABLE. AND,
IN FACT, WE SHOULD PROBABLY
AND, IN FACT, WE SHOULD PROBABLY
TAKE A LOOK AT THOSE LINES SO
PEOPLE CAN UNDERSTAND WHAT I'M
PEOPLE CAN UNDERSTAND
WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT.
TALKING ABOUT. THE MIDDLE
OF THE POEM, FROST
THE MIDDLE OF THE POEM, FROST
WRITES, "THOUGH AS FOR THAT, THE
PASSING THERE HAD WORN THEM
REALLY ABOUT THE SAME, AND BOTH
EQUALLY LAY IN LEAVES NO STEP
HAD EXTRAORDINARIEN BLACK."
>> Brown: IN THAT SENSE IT
DOESN'T MATTER WHAT YOU TAKE.
>> FROST IS SUGGESTING WHEN THE
SPEAKER LATER CLAIMS THAT THE
ROAD HE TOOK WAS LESS TRAVELED
AND THAT IT MADE ALL THE
DIFFERENCE, THE SPEAKER WILL BE
MAKING UP A STORY AFTER THE PACK
TO JUSTIFY A CHOICE THAT MAYBE
WASN'T EVEN REALLY A CHOICE IN
WASN'T EVEN REALLY A
CHOICE IN THE FIRST PLACE.
THE FIRST PLACE. >> Brown:
FROST HIMSELF WROTE
>> Brown: FROST HIMSELF
WROTE IT FOR A FRIEND?
IT FOR A FRIEND?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT. >>
Brown: AS A SKYWEST OR
>> Brown: AS A SKYWEST OR JOKE?
JOKE? >> THAT'S WHAT HE SAYS.
>> THAT'S WHAT HE SAYS. HE
CLAIMS HE WROTE IT BECAUSE HE
HE CLAIMS HE WROTE IT BECAUSE
HE USED TO GO ON WALKS WITH THE
USED TO GO ON WALKS WITH THE
ENGLISH POET EDWARD THOMAS
BECAUSE FROST SPENT BRIEF TIME
IN ENGLAND, THE BEGINNING OF HIS
IN ENGLAND, THE BEGINNING
OF HIS CAREER AS A POET.
CAREER AS A POET. AND WHAT
HE WOULD LIKE TO SAY,
AND WHAT HE WOULD LIKE TO SAY,
AT READINGS AFTERWARD, IS THAT
HE AND TESTIMONY MASS WOULD GO
HE AND TESTIMONY MASS WOULD
GO ON THESE WALKS ANDOM
ON THESE WALKS ANDOM IS A
SOMEWHAT MORE ROMANTIC
IS A SOMEWHAT MORE ROMANTIC
SENSIBILITY THAN FROST, THOMAS
WOULD ALWAYS REGRET WHATEVER
PATH THEY HAD TAKEN.
PATH THEY HAD TAKEN. AND
THEN AFTERWARD, WE REALLY
AND THEN AFTERWARD, WE REALLY
SHOULD HAVE GONE TO THE RIGHT.
I SHOULD HAVE SHOWN YOU
I SHOULD HAVE SHOWN
YOU SOMETHING OVER.
SOMETHING OVER. THERE WE
SHOULD HAVE GONE TO THE
THERE WE SHOULD HAVE
GONE TO THE LEFT.
LEFT. I COULD HAVE
SHOWN YOU SOMETHING
I COULD HAVE SHOWN
YOU SOMETHING THERE.
THERE. FROST WAS AMUSED BY THIS.
FROST WAS AMUSED BY THIS. SO
HE WROTE THE POEM AS A JOKE
SO HE WROTE THE POEM AS A
JOKE ON HIS FRIEND'S EXPENSE.
ON HIS FRIEND'S EXPENSE. >>
Brown: YOU'RE INEVITABLY
>> Brown: YOU'RE INEVITABLY
WRITING ABOUT FROST HIMSELF, WHO
IS SUBJECT TO THE SAME KIND OF
DUALITY, THE WAY HE'S SEEN AS
THE AVUNCULAR, THE FARMER, THE
WISE MAN, BUT AS YOU WRITE AND
AS BIOGRAPHERS HAVE SHOWN, IT'S
AS BIOGRAPHERS HAVE SHOWN,
IT'S A CONSTRUCTEDDED SELF.
A CONSTRUCTEDDED SELF.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT. THAT'S RIGHT.
THAT'S RIGHT. THERE'S A
DUALITY TO FROST MUCH
THERE'S A DUALITY TO FROST MUCH
LIKE THE DUALITY IN THIS POEM.
IN FACT, WHAT YOU SEE IS A
POPULAR REVERENCE FOR FROST THAT
IS BASED IN THIS IMAGE OF HIM AS
IS BASED IN THIS IMAGE OF HIM
AS A KIND OF FARMER, POET, YOU
A KIND OF FARMER, POET, YOU
KNOW, TILLING THE SOIL OF NEW
ENGLAND AND COMING UP WITH ALL
ENGLAND AND COMING UP WITH
ALL OF THESE IMMORTAL POEMS.
OF THESE IMMORTAL POEMS.
AND THEN THERE'S A SORT OF
COUNTERVAILING IMAGE OF FROST
AMONG THE ACADEMIC LEADERSHIP
FOR POETRY, WHICH IS, YOU KNOW,
FOR POETRY, WHICH IS, YOU
KNOW, A VERY, VERY DARK AND
A VERY, VERY DARK AND
WITHHOLDING AND MANIPULATIVE
WITHHOLDING AND
MANIPULATIVE SORT OF POET.
SORT OF POET. WHAT I TRY
SUGGEST IN THE BOOK
WHAT I TRY SUGGEST IN THE BOOK
IS THAT THERE IS AN ELEMENT OF
TRUTH TO BETH OF THESE IMAGE,
JUST AS THERE IS AN ELEMENT OF
TRUTH TO BETH OF THE COMMON
INTERPRETATIONS OF "THE ROAD NOT
INTERPRETATIONS OF
"THE ROAD NOT TAKEN."
TAKEN." >> Brown:
YOUR LARGER STORY IS
>> Brown: YOUR LARGER STORY IS
THE READING AND THE MISREADING
BOTH TELL US SOMETHING ABOUT
OURSELVES, PARTICULARLY AS
AMERICANS, AND OUR IDEAS ABOUT
INDIVIDUALITY AND COMMUNITY AND
INDIVIDUALITY AND
COMMUNITY AND SO ON.
SO ON. >> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT. BECAUSE
IF YOU THINK ABOUT THIS
BECAUSE IF YOU THINK ABOUT THIS
SORT OF SETTING OF THE POEM, IT
IS AN INDIVIDUAL MAKING A CHOICE
BETWEEN TWO OPTIONS, WHICH IS A
VERY, VERY DISTILLED VERSION OF
VERY, VERY DISTILLED VERSION
OF THE IDEA OF CHOOSING.
THE IDEA OF CHOOSING. OFTEN
WE'RE CHOOSING AMONG
OFTEN WE'RE CHOOSING AMONG
DOZENS OF OPTIONS OR MAKING
DOZENS OF OPTIONS OR
MAKING CHOICES IN GROUPS.
CHOICES IN GROUPS. THIS IS
THEMOST FOCUSED VERSION
THIS ISTHEMOST FOCUSED
VERSION OF CHOICE YOU COULD COME
UP
OF CHOICE YOU COULD
COME UP WITH.
WITH. AND, YOU KNOW,
IN AMERICA, AS A
AND, YOU KNOW, IN AMERICA, AS A
LOT OF PSYCHOLOGISTS AND SOCIAL
LOT OF PSYCHOLOGISTS AND
SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGISTS HAVE BEEN
PSYCHOLOGISTS HAVE BEEN
DEMONSTRATING FOR SOME TIME NOW,
DEMONSTRATING FOR SOME TIME
NOW, WE FAVOR A KIND OF HIGHLY
WE FAVOR A KIND OF HIGHLY
PRONOUNCED INDIVIDUALISM THAT IS
PRONOUNCED INDIVIDUALISM
THAT IS MAYBE NOT QUITE SO
MAYBE NOT QUITE SO
CHARACTERISTIC OF SOME OTHER
CHARACTERISTIC OF
SOME OTHER COUNTRIES.
COUNTRIES. >> Brown:
THE BOOK IS "THE
>> Brown: THE BOOK IS
"THE ROAD NOT TAKEN."
ROAD NOT TAKEN." DAVID
ORR, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
DAVID ORR, THANK YOU SO
MUCH. >> THANKS A LOT.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
OUR "NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE
OUR "NEWSHOUR
SHARES" OF THE DAY.
DAY. SOMETHING THAT
CAUGHT OUR EYE
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
WHICH MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
WHICH MIGHT BE OF
INTEREST TO YOU, TOO.
YOU, TOO. OUR SENIOR
POLITICS PRODUCER BOB
OUR SENIOR POLITICS PRODUCER BOB
KOVACH WENT TO IOWA TO COVER THE
CANDIDATES, BUT NOTICED A MUCH
MORE POPULAR ITEM AT THE IOWA
STATE FAIR: THE STATE'S ICONIC
STATE FAIR: THE STATE'S
ICONIC PORK CHOP.
PORK CHOP. HE SENT US
THIS VIDEO POST CARD
HE SENT US THIS VIDEO POST CARD
OF THE CHEFS BEHIND THE GRILL
AND THE PEOPLE WHO LINE UP TO
AND THE PEOPLE WHO
LINE UP TO PARTAKE.
PARTAKE. >> WE RACK
UP ABOUT 45 OR 50 ON
>> WE RACK UP ABOUT 45 OR 50 ON
EACH RACK AND SEE THEM ALL AT
EACH RACK AND SEE
THEM ALL AT ONE TIME.
ONE TIME. I HAVE THE
MOST OF A LITTLE OVER
I HAVE THE MOST OF A LITTLE OVER
12,000 IOWA CHOPS DURING THE
FAIR PROBABLY AND GRAB IT BY THE
FAIR PROBABLY AND GRAB IT BY
THE BONE, JUST LIKE YOU DO THE
BONE, JUST LIKE YOU DO THE
STICK, AND EAT IT RIGHT OFF THE
STICK, AND EAT IT
RIGHT OFF THE BONE.
BONE. THESE ARE
GREAT WITHOUT THE
THESE ARE GREAT
WITHOUT THE SAUCE.
SAUCE. WHEN WE GET
'EM ALL THERE, WE'LL
WHEN WE GET 'EM ALL THERE, WE'LL
PULL THEM OFF AND THEY GO INTO
WARMING OVENS WHERE WE HOLD THEM
WARMING OVENS WHERE WE HOLD
THEM TO GO ON INTO THE LINE.
TO GO ON INTO THE
LINE. IT'S GAS FIRED.
IT'S GAS FIRED. THERE ARE
FOUR DIFFERENT BURNERS
THERE ARE FOUR DIFFERENT BURNERS
IN THERE TO KEEP THE HEAT
IN THERE TO KEEP
THE HEAT SPREAD.
SPREAD. THAT ALWAYS
BECOMES A CHALLENGE.
THAT ALWAYS BECOMES A CHALLENGE.
WHEN DO YOU STOP COOKING AND
WHEN DO YOU HAVE ENOUGH TO MAKE
WHEN DO YOU HAVE
ENOUGH TO MAKE 9:00.
9:00. WHICH IS TIME WE CLOSE.
WHICH IS TIME WE CLOSE. YOU
DON'T HAVE A BUNCH LEFT OVER
YOU DON'T HAVE A BUNCH
LEFT OVER AT THAT TIME.
AT THAT TIME. >>
THIS IS WONDERFUL.
>> THIS IS WONDERFUL. THIS
IOWA CHOP IS WHAT IT'S
THIS IOWA CHOP IS WHAT
IT'S REALLY ALL ABOUT.
REALLY ALL ABOUT. THIS IS
WHY I COME TO THE FAIR.
THIS IS WHY I COME TO THE FAIR.
THIS AND THE PORKCHOP ON THE
THIS AND THE PORKCHOP
ON THE STICK.
STICK. IT'S ONE OF
THE GREATEST THINGS
IT'S ONE OF THE GREATEST
THINGS OF THE FAIR.
OF THE FAIR. I SOAK
MYTEET H INTO A
I SOAK MYTEET H INTO A
MOUTHWATERING PORKCHOP THAT WAS
MOUTHWATERING PORKCHOP THAT
WAS JUST SO BEAUTIFUL.
JUST SO BEAUTIFUL. OH, YEAH.
OH, YEAH. JUST HAVING
AN IOWA PORKCHOP IS
JUST HAVING AN IOWA PORKCHOP IS
JUST ONE OF THE GREATEST THINGS
WHEN YOU COME TO THE FAIR.
IT'S A GOOD MEAL TO EAT.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: IT'S A COMMON COMPLAINT,
THAT IF YOU SPEND THE NIGHT IN
THE HOSPITAL, YOU PROBABLY WON'T
THE HOSPITAL, YOU PROBABLY
WON'T GET MUCH SLEEP.
GET MUCH SLEEP. BUT HOSPITALS
ARE RETHINKING HOW
BUT HOSPITALS ARE RETHINKING HOW
THEY FUNCTION AT NIGHT-- IN SOME
CASES, REDUCING NIGHTTIME CHECK-
INS-- SO THAT MORE PATIENTS CAN
INS-- SO THAT MORE PATIENTS
CAN REST UNINTERRUPTED.
REST UNINTERRUPTED. SEE
WHAT ELSE THEY'RE DOING, WE
SEE WHAT ELSE THEY'RE DOING, WE
HAVE A REPORT FROM KAISER HEALTH
HAVE A REPORT FROM KAISER
HEALTH NEWS, ON OUR HOME PAGE,
NEWS, ON OUR HOME PAGE,
pbs.org/newshour.
pbs.org/newshour. AND
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
TONIGHT. ON WEDNESDAY,
WE'LL TALK TO
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL TALK
TO REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE JOHN KASICH, THE
CANDIDATE JOHN KASICH,
THE GOVERNOR OF OHIO.
GOVERNOR OF OHIO.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. JOIN
US ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
TOMORROW EVENING. FOR
ALL OF US AT THE PBS
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.